MBOMBELA – A trip to SARS turned into a nightmare when a woman was caught in the crossfire of a cash-in-transit attack on Tuesday. “We heard numerous shots and scattered in different directions, fearing for our lives,” said Harriet Makhanya who witnessed the robbery.  In the chaos, she could not escape the crossfire and was luckily only grazed by one of the bullets which entered and exited her hooded jacket. She was treated on the scene for a minor flesh wound. According to Wahl Bartmann, Fidelity Services Group CEO, four armed suspects disarmed a Fidelity crewman who was collecting a cash consignment from Pick n Pay at The Square around 10:00. They made off with the cash.  A Fidelity driver, who witnessed the incident, gave chase as the suspects attempted to flee in a white Polo. “One of the suspects, in the panic, did not manage to get into the getaway vehicle and fled on foot with the cash consignment. He tried to hide it in the nearby bush, but it was later recovered,” he said. ALSO READ: White River robbery victim pleads for return of mom’s photo Bartmann said it was a bullet from one of the suspects that hit Makhanya. The Fidelity staff members escaped unscathed. “We are definitely continuing to see a spike in cash-in-transit incidents and we would once again like to remind shoppers to please be extra vigilant when they are close to any of our cash vans,” he said. The police in Mpumalanga have launched a manhunt for the suspects involved. According to provincial spokesperson, Col Donald Mdhluli, are still at large. A case of armed robbery is being investigated. “The rear window of the Polo was damaged during the crossfire. It is strongly believed that the suspects might have sustained injuries,” he said. The police urge public and private hospitals, doctors and medical facilities to be on the lookout for these suspects who might have sustained gunshot wounds. “Anyone with information regarding the suspects’ whereabouts can contact Det Col Ernest Maoka on 082-318-9843, or contact the Crime Stop number on 0860-010-111. Alternatively a tip-off can be given on MySAPSApp that can be downloaded to any smartphone. All information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality and callers may opt to remain anonymous.” Anita McGarry, centre manager of The Square, has confirmed the armed incident and said an investigation is under way.