Nkosinathi Freddie Ndlovu, born in this kasi, has recently been appointed as a Global Youth Parliament national executive board member. Last week, the South African Deaf Youth Development Project (SADYDP) congratulated him on this achievement. “This appointment is the first of its kind. He is the first deaf person to be appointed in such a prestigious position. The SADYDP is confident that he will do justice to the role and champion aspirations of the deaf youth and disability sector in general,” said the organisation in a media release. The Global Youth Parliament is an international organisation that strives to create and sustain the principle of democracy across the globe. The advancement of sustainable development goals is at the heart of its operations. Read: Deafening silent protest against violence Ndlovu’s responsibilities will include consulting with the national executive board, country coordinator and deputy coordinator to strengthen international relations through programmes and other engagements. The headquarters of the Global Youth Parliament are in Kathmandu, Nepal. According to Mzolisi Toni, the director general of the Department of Social Development, Ndlovu has proven himself to be a prominent young disability rights activist in South Africa. “He constantly provides invaluable contributions within the provincial, national, regional and global frameworks for the protection of rights for persons with disabilities,” he said. Ndlovu founded SADYDP, a nationally youth-led NGO in 2013. He has been its president and CEO to date. Also Read: President Cyril Ramaphosa to hold virtual meeting with leaders of political parties on Wednesday He was awarded the Order of the Baobab by President Cyril Ramaphosa in 2018, and is serving his second term as a member of the presidential working group on disability in the presidency. He is also an entrepreneur, founder and executive chairperson of the NF Ndlovu Africa Group of Companies. He served as board member of the Mpumalanga Youth Economic Forum and is currently a member of the Youth in Business South Africa Mpumalanga branch. He is also the council member for Disabled People of South Africa in the province.