The addition comes as part of the rolling out of a specialised ambulance fleet by ER24, with the other vehicles to be distributed to its various branches across the country. In a statement by ER24, the general manager of quality assurance and support services, Peter van de Spuy, said the team had “spent a great deal of time, effort and research with the development of our new ambulances”. Van de Spuy said its operational crews as well as industry specialists all worked together, using their specialist knowledge to ensure the new fleet “meets the needs of superior patient care and the comfort, safety and enhanced work environment of the crew”. He said there have been numerous changes to the vehicle design with the new fleet including a much bigger space for the patient and the crew, crew panic alarms, additional emergency warning lights and specialised internal conversions. ALSO READ: Court in short: Updates of prominent cases in Mbombela “These changes and additions provide for a clean and clinical modern workspace and are aesthetically pleasing, and have been designed and purpose-built to our high clinical standards,” said Van de Spuy. “The new generation high-roof Toyota Quantum, which has long been the vehicle of choice for our operational environment, was proudly supplied by Barloworld Maponya Soweto Toyota.” He said the vehicle was then delivered to ERSEA (Emergency and Response Equipment CC) so that the inside could be converted into a state-of-the-art emergency medical vehicle. “ERSEA included numerous safety and security measures, including extra internal lighting, smash-and-grab, and a more visible emergency warning system. This will ensure not only the safety of the patient but the crews as well,” he said. ALSO READ: Barbertonians face water rationing after poor rainfall Lowvelder was invited to take a short drive in the new ambulance on Thursday, driving down the streets of Mbombela in complete comfort. The differences between the older ambulance and the new specialised fleet are stark, with the new vehicles boasting a lot more space, storage for medical equipment and a built-in navigation system with live-tracking. The Mbombela team spent Thursday morning stocking the new ambulance and trying out all the new features, including the ambulance siren which has a variety of different-sounding alarms that can be layered on top of each other. The new ambulance will be out on the roads of Mbombela along with the older fleet, which is also ICU-capable. ALSO READ: KNP field ranger goes missing