The lab cost more than R2 million. The auspicious ceremony was organised at Gobetse Secondary School at Ga Malekane village and was attended by, among others, the General Manager (GM) of Booysendal Mine, Mosala Letebele, Human Resource Manager (HRM), Ziningi Shezi, the Sekhukhune District Municipality’s executive mayor, Dineo Nchabeleng, Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality’s acting mayor, Queen Moeng, the MEC for Limpopo Department of Education, Polly Boshielo, circuit managers, school principals and the local magoshi. Speaking to the crowd, Boshielo said the laboratory would help local schools to prepare pupils for university. She also warned locals against vandalising educational facilities. “The laboratory will assist Limpopo department of education in its aim of achieving a 100 per cent matric pass rate. Please do not damage it, when protesting for other services.  “The Sekhukhune district has been underperforming. We thank Northam Booysendal for the lab as this will equip no less than nine schools in the Ngwaabe circuit. “We expect all the schools that will be benefiting from this lab to produce scientists, engineers, artisans and doctors.” Boshielo thanked Booysendal for seeing a need to improve education in Limpopo Province. “We don’t want our pupils to go on to university without ever having seen a beaker, for instance, so this lab has come to our rescue because we lack these vital resources. The government and the private sector has to ensure that the physical infrastructure and environment of every school inspire learners to want to come to school and learn, and teachers to teach,” she said. Letebele said while the intervention formed part of the company’s social and labour plan, the idea to invest in education was aimed at producing a qualified work force in years to come and giving back to the communities. “The total cost which included the construction of the Ngwaabe Combined Science laboratory and provision of chemicals and equipment is more than R2 million. The project resulted in creation of direct and indirect employment opportunities and temporary and permanent jobs. “This greatly benefited local communities bringing improvement in the socio economic conditions. “This project was constructed and completed in 2019. It was constructed in consultation with the Department of Education, school governing bodies and Gobetse Secondary School.  “The completed laboratory will be providing life science and experimental learning services to nine schools in the Ngwaabe circuit. It will benefit hundreds of learners in the field of maths and science. This facility will significantly contribute to the imperative need for quality learning and teaching for the great benefit of all learners in this circuit.” According to Letebele, the lab will through proper utilisation assist in the improvement of Limpopo matric pass rate of 73 per cent. “ It will ensure that teachers and learners will practically define science, have better understanding of science, and do demonstrations in classrooms.  This is a state of the art lab and will also benefit the future generations,” he added. Ngwaabe circuit manager, Harry Dinkwenyane said the lab would help the pupils with science experiments, as previously they had to imagine the experiments happening using the information in their books. “This lab will enable the pupils to see the things they are learning. Our pupils will now conduct experiments here at school and their results should improve because they will be able to better understand what they previously only read about in books.” Representing paramount King Kgoshigolo Thulare, was Ramphela Thulare. He warned locals against destroying properties during protests.  “We plead with locals to stop burning schools and properties while demanding the acceleration of services. We need this lab to benefit the future generations. We applaud Northam Booysendal for the state of the art lab.”   The ceremony was concluded with Northam Booysendal’s Stakeholder Engagement Manager, Peter Lentswane showcasing some of the modern technological equipment and tools which will be used in the lab to the guests.