Get 40% off when you stay in Buhala Lodge situated on the Southern banks of the Crocodile River.  From R3198.00 per night. Take advantage of this offer and book here.  Buhala Lodge is a colonial style thatch roof lodge with amazing views over the Kruger National Park and members of the Big 5 are frequent visitors to our property. The owner-run lodge offers personal service and attention to detail and the unique opportunity to play golf at Leopard Creek Golf Course.  Get 15% off when you stay in Tinyiko Kruger Lodge in Marloth Park.  From R1190.00 per night. Take advantage of this offer and book here.  Ideally located in the heart of the African Bush, Tinyiko Kruger Lodge caters to your every whim, while you focus on recharging and relaxing. Marloth Park is a unique conservation area adjacent to the Kruger National Park and is home to many species of wildlife and game, that roam freely in their natural habitat. Guests can enjoy an unprecedented intimate experience of nature and wild animals, without sacrificing their creature comforts.  Get 25% off when you stay in Chestnut Country Lodge.  From R1650.00 per night. Take advantage of this offer and book here,  Based near the quiet country town of Hazyview, Mpumalanga, Chestnut Country Lodge is also situated within easy reach of the Panorama Route, which offers the traveller spectacular scenic surroundings, waterfalls and walking trails.  The Blyde River Canyon and the 3 Rondawels are a must-see, along with Bourkes Luck Potholes and God’s Window. A visit to the quaint towns of Sabie and Graskop will offer the visitor a plethora of restaurants and curio shops. Get 20% off when you stay in Thokozani Lodge.  From R552.00 per night. Take advantage of this offer and book here,  White River is a pleasant small town situated in a picturesque district and known as the “Artist’s Town” as many internationally known artists, sculptors, furniture makers and potters have settled in the beautiful surroundings of the town.  Due to its altitude of nearly 1000 metres above sea level the climate is moderate and pleasant even in midsummer. It is ideally suited for the growing of subtropical fruit such as citrus, mangos, avocados, litchis and nuts. There are lots of small farms and vast plantations of pine and bluegum trees around the town.  Thokozani Lodge is situated in the heart of the Lowveld. Only a short 30 minutes drive takes you to Kruger National Park  Get 25% off when you stay in Paperbank Cottage.  From R792.00 per night. Take advantage of this offer and book here,  Paperbark Cottage is a spacious, homely and comfortable place to stay. Situated on our farm, in the owners large garden and surrounded by indigenous bush. It is the perfect setting to spend time in nature, waking up to birdsong. peaceful and quiet, it is the ideal stopover or perfect for a longer stay      