Two people, a man and a woman, were murdered in Extension 9 in Emjindini this morning. According to the police report, the pair, identified as Malcolm Nkululeko Mathew and Gugu Vanessa Mkhize, were allegedly shot by burglars at about 01:30. The landlord, known only as Mr Vilane, alleged that he was awoken by what sounded like a chain being dragged along the ground. When he rose to investigate the noise, three men were outside. Two were armed and pointed their guns at him, forcing him back into the house. The Barberton police spokesperson, Capt Jabu Ndubane, said two of the suspects proceeded to tie him up before going into the backroom where Mathew and Mkhize were sleeping.  ALSO READ: Shoppers at Valencia Wholesalers hit by armed robbers “The landlord (Vilane) alleged that he heard six shots being fired by one of the men before the other two left the backroom. “He later found out that two of his tenants, Malcolm Nkululeko Mathew and Gugu Vanessa Mkhize, had been shot dead and the house was ransacked,” said Ndubane. An investigation into the murder scene revealed that the suspects had pried open the door with a crowbar and pickaxe that was left at the scene.  ALSO READ: Higher conviction rate for sexual offenders in Mpumalanga “When the police entered the house, they noted that the stove in the kitchen was damaged, the sitting room upside down and the bedroom ransacked. ” Six spent cartridges were found on the scene, as well as the bodies of Mathew and Mkhize. “The first victim (male) was lying with his feet in the toilet and his body between the main bedroom and the sitting room. He was fatally shot in the forehead.  ALSO READ: Suspect in cyclist’s murder arrested after 13 years “The female was found in the bedroom between the bed and the wall. It appeared that she had tried to hide from the intruders. She sustained a gunshot to the upper abdomen,” continued Ndubane. She added that a purse, Samsung cell phone and documents, purportedly belonging to Mkhize, were found lying on the floor. The slain pair are believed to have owned a bottle store not far from their rented backroom, that was also plundered by the suspects. ALSO READ: KNP field ranger arrested for possession of dagga “They took the business keys and went to open the bottle store where they made off with the cash register.” Ndubane commented that the police suspect that the attackers were on foot, given that the bottle store is within walking distance of Extension 9. Investigations into the incident are under way and the three suspects face charges of double murder, house robbery and business robbery. The police ask that anyone with information who can assist with the investigation to call Det Lt Col Senzo Dawe on 071-685-1364 or the Crime Stop number on 0860-010-111. They can also send information via the MySAPSApp which can be downloaded to any smartphone. All information will be treated as confidential and callers may choose to remain anonymous.