Toorbos is René van Rooyen’s adaptation of award-winning writer Dalene Matthee’s 2003 top-selling novel. It is produced by the award-winning filmmaker, André Scholtz and his son, Dries Scholtz of The Film Factory, under the guidance of René van Rooyen, scriptwriter and director of the movie. The film investigates the uprooting of a young forest woman during the time of the last forest dwellers in the South African Knysna forests of the 1930s. It is the story of Karoliena Kapp, a consecrated forest woman’s intimate connection with the tree heart of the forest. However, when she meets the man of her dreams, this very enchantment with the forest results in a love triangle that threatens to destroy her when she must choose between marrying and moving to town, or staying behind in the place where she feels safe. The decisions she makes, leads to an unforgettable adventure of inner conflict, change, acceptance and, above all, love. The cast includes Smith, Elani Dekker, Ira Blanckenberg, Clare Marshall, Ivan Abrahams and Gretschen Ramsden. Brendan Barnes is the cinematographer. ALSO READ: Clint and Company rocks Creedence at the Barnyard White River Lowvelder caught up with Smith to find out more about his younger days in Mbombela. 1. Please tell us more about growing up in Mbombela – which schools did you go to and where did you like to ‘hang out’? I went to Laerskool Laeveld and Hoërskool Bergvlam. I wasn’t a very social teenager and mostly ‘hung out’ in our living room, watching Noot vir Noot with my parents. But in later years I was always a big fan of a stukkie langarm at Stables, ‘die Stalle’. 2. What is one of your favourite places in the Lowveld? Next to my older brother, I am the biggest Kruger Park fan. Kaapsehoop also comes to mind. We often drive there for breakfast as a family… something which I hated doing as a petulant teenager, but am now beginning to appreciate. 3. Share one of your favourite memories of growing up in Mbombela. I’m not sure why, but Nelspruit Primary was never really good at rugby when I was in Laerskool Laeveld. So a fixture against them was always an exciting day, because everybody in the team knew they were going to get at least one try each! 4. Do you come back to Mbombela often? As often as I can. My family still lives here, and I’m a big fan of the peace and abundant wildlife which the Lowveld offers. 5. Has Mbombela/the Lowveld ever inspired your writing? I don’t recall any specific moments of inspiration, but I have gone to the Kruger Park on various occasions, camping on my own for a week or two, while writing. There’s no better writing companion than nature. 6. How do you feel about the support of dramatic arts in the Lowveld? The arts are often underestimated and not recognised as the very beneficial, and even crucial, element to a functioning society. I believe that a healthy cultural environment plays a huge part in developing a healthy community. 7. What advice would you give to anyone wanting to pursue acting? This is a very serendipitous industry, but you have to do what you can to stack the odds in your favour. So start with the proper training, be prepared to work hard, and get yourself a thick skin. ALSO READ: Open the throttle to first-class rock