Four suspects recently appeared in the KaBokweni Magistrate’s Court. A former assistant director at the Department of Education (DoE), Johan Mandla Mathabela (62); a state accountant, Soneni Prudence Mabila (51); owner of Valencia Day Care Centre, Sibongile Linah Mathabela (40), and owner of Simunye Day Care Centre, Gloria Mhlanga (54), stand accused of alleged theft, fraud and corruption. Johan, Sibongile and Mhlanga appeared in court last Friday, while Mabila appeared on Monday as she was reportedly out of the province on Friday. They were arrested during a Hawks’ Serious Commercial Crime investigation. The provincial spokesperson for the Hawks, Capt Dineo Lucy Sekgotodi said, “The investigation has revealed that in the period of 2015 to 2018, Johan and Sibongile (not related) allegedly conspired and siphoned approximately R300 000 from the department. The money was allegedly transferred into the account of the Masoyi based Valencia Day Care Centre owned by Linah. ALSO READ: Apprentice plumbers battle to unblock stipends She and Johan reportedly shared the ill-gotten funds. “The money was allegedly transferred on different dates by the official in the accounts department of the DoE,” Sekgotodi explained. “It is further alleged that Mhlanga colluded with the same state accountant, resulting in about R272 000 being transferred into Simunye Day Care Centre’s account, of which she is the owner.” Sekgotodi said the investigation also established that both day-care centres had not been registered with the department. ALSO PHOTOS: Locals unwind with the Unwined Lowveld Wine and Food Show According to the DoE, the officials who are allegedly implicated in the fraud and corruption case resigned in 2018. Jasper Zwane, spokesman for education, said, “As the department, we cannot speak on their behalf since they are no longer employed with us. With regard to the case, the law must be allowed to take its course”. They were all released on a warning and the case has been postponed to December 15.