MZINTI – Zitha is known as Mfundo, Lelo Mthiyane’s (Amanda du Pont) cousin on SABC 1’s Skeem Saam, while Dlamini plays Thandeka on Ingozi. On Bukhosi, Dlamini takes on the role of Lenhle Mtfombeni, a princess of the Mtfombeni Royal Family and daughter of the late king. “Lenhle is very rebellious, but also has a strong character and leadership skills. When she is appointed queen, division ensues in the kingdom as the king had brothers,” she said. Zitha plays Busa Mbhele, a very influential, clever young man of Nkomazi. “His life journey changes completely just by falling in love with a beautiful young woman,” he commented on his role. ALSO READ: Hawks investigation into Nkomazi municipality not completed yet Bukhosi, an African tale about leadership, culture, love, wealth and power, tells the story of a community that overcomes its twists and turns through resilience, courage, love, patriotism, a sense of pride and the desire to move forward. “It aims to close the gap in the current drama television where siSwati and IsiNdebele speaking people are not catered for,” said Delizwe Shabangu, the executive producer and creator of the programme. He added, “It is a television series filmed primarily in siSwati and IsiNdebele languages, and depicts a community that still upholds its traditions, culture and way of living in modern-day society. It touches on themes such as love, classism and gender equality, among others. It aims to educate, create awareness and shed light on cultural and mostly royal matters, while entertaining.” Bukhosi showcases the province’s attractions, uncovers talent and exposes unknown languages such as Sepulana, while also endorsing known languages like XiTsonga, siSwati and IsiNdebele. “It all started after publishing a youth-inspiring book, Young Minds Know How, that the series came to my mind. I then approached Kekeletso Mphuthi to help develop the project with me and over the past decade, it has gone through many changes. Now we have finally decided on a plot that makes us both happy,” Shabangu said. The project is about the experience of living under the leadership of chiefs in a democratic country, which at times creates confusion and uncertainty. “The segregation of responsibilities and the line of order can be so blurry. It also touches on gender equality in leadership. There is good and bad within the chaos, sometimes even ugly. What more can I say without spoiling it?” laughed the veteran actress, Mphuthi, who co-produces, develops and directs Bukhosi. The former Soul City and Jozi H star added, “The content on television, on our screens at home lacks in offerings in these official languages that have been neglected. They deserve a light to be shone on them too.” ALSO READ: Alan Holmes to launch a new book on Marloth