DCM organised a road safety and gender-based violence (GBV) campaign. The event was held on October 30 on the R555 in Kutullo. The mine partnered with the Sekhukhune SAPS, Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality’s Traffic Department and the community policing forum (CPF). Flyers depicting road-safety tips, crime-prevention tips and those condemning GBV were distributed to motorists. The campaign started in the early hours of the morning with the mine’s management and traffic officers conducting random checks on motorists for roadworthiness of vehicles. The teams handed a message of encouragement to road users: Say no to women, children and men abuse #STOPGBV. The DCM socio-economic development (SED) superintendent, Pius Monyela, said safety is the mine’s priority. “This is why we came here to let our motorists and the community know all about safety on the roads.  We partnered with the municipality’s traffic department to ensure that we successfully deliver the message to road users. “We are aware of accidents happening on local routes, so we need to come to the party to ensure that people are taught road safety. “We must not drive and text. If you feel that you are tired just park your car at a safe place and rest. This will mean you will arrive safely at your destination.” He said the mine will always encourage road safety to curb fatalities. Monyela also added that DCM is against GBV and encouraged victims to report to the SAPS immediately. Welcome Makua, CPF chairperson, warned locals to refrain from hitch-hiking on the R555.  “We have incidents of people who were robbed on this road. To be safe, make use of public transport and stop hitch-hiking. We once again encourage local communities to work with the SAPS, the police needs locals in the fight against crime.” A motorist, Walter Khoza, told Steelburger/Lydenburg News that he is concerned about accidents happening on the busy road. “We thank the mine and municipality for combating accidents on the road. We hardly hear of these campaigns and believe this will teach our people about road safety.  We must not only practise safety in our jobs, but we must do it while driving too.” The event was concluded with the team donating food parcels to 10 needy families in Kutullo.