MATSULU – The IT and marketing management graduate pursued her career in what she loves the most – dancing and making people happy. Lady Vee left many people wanting an encore during the Doek on Fleek event at Chafzar in KaNyamazane over the weekend. This artist is one among the many who has been heavily affected by the lockdown and the outbreak of Covid-19.
“I had four projects lined up between April and July, but they were cancelled because of the virus. I have survived by the grace of God and ended up using some of my savings. However, that was a bad move for me. I am glad that with level 1, events have started again and artists can work to make a living,” she said.  The Matsulu-born dancer and popular MC told Lowvelder Express that she had never studied choreography. “I did not attend a school of arts; the craft in me comes from God. I never took my talent seriously until I realised how much people appreciate it. That was when I told myself that I need to push myself harder in order to grow,” she said. ALSO READ: Premier to launch 67 brand-new ambulances Lady Vee first came into fame in 2002 when she was an opening act for well-known national artist, Thembi Seete. That was also the year she won her first award as a dancer. She had been a choreographer at a number of events in the province and at national events including the Mzansi Magic’s KFC Taste Kitchen, Multichoice Diski Challenge, Mpumalanga Sports Awards and others. “To succeed in the entertainment industry one needs to do some soul searching in what he or she wants in the industry, and then to choose wisely,” she said. Lady Vee clearly remembers a call she received from Vodacom. This opened many doors for her. “My breakthrough came after getting a call from Vodacom saying I had been chosen as a choreographer for the Summer Shake Tour and as an MC for the M-pesa Tour in the province. I never thought that would happen to me, but it did, and I am forever grateful,” she said.  Lady Vee is motivated by the Scriptures. “I know that every blessing comes from God.” “I keep on teaching myself new things to stay relevant in the industry,” she said. Three things she cannot live without include prayer, her phone and her bank card. Lady Vee also works in partnership with the Mabika Group of Companies to donate food parcels to the needy. She gives away dresses to a few matric learners for their farewells every year. This artist offers free choreography training to dancers in the Matsafeni, Pienaar and Matsulu areas. ALSO READ: SPAR joins Primestars in #SavingTheClassOf2020