A local was reunited with his family and given the chance to get to know them after almost 50 years. Leon van Wyk was only one and a half years old when he was given up for adoption by his biological parents. He explained how he never felt ready to face them until 2011 when he started the search. “I requested the adoption papers and asked the welfare organisation for help to track down my parents,” Van Wyk said. “I heard nothing and kept asking for updates. After seven years of waiting, my friend, Annetjie Botha, was sick of me moaning about not hearing anything and started to help me on her own.” Van Wyk was finally able to meet his parents and his brother in 2018 after the search had borne fruit and a local businessman sponsored him tickets to the Western Cape. “I spent 10 days with my family. I planned it so that I would be with each of my mother, father and brother for three days.” Van Wyk was also treated to a surprise birthday party, which took place during this time. “I spent time with my mother first. I had flown down alone, but luckily still had support telephonically. I remember I had to take a smoke break first before heading out to the waiting room in the airport. As I went through the doors my stepdad stopped me and asked me where I was going and I immediately spotted my biological mother,” Van Wyk said. ALSO READ: Well-known and loved veterinarian loses battle against cancer There were scores of tears upon meeting each family member anew. “I felt that I was accepted 100 per cent by them. I made sure beforehand that they knew what type of person I am, I didn’t try to put up a front.” He mentioned that he asked all the usual questions about why, although he has not really received an answer. “I think my parents were more nervous than I was. They also had questions – I think we are all happy that we still have the chance to get to know one another,” Van Wyk said. “After that visit, I figured out who I really am. My identity was made clear to me. Mannerisms and likes and dislikes are after all things that run in your blood.” Van Wyk has made the effort to visit his parents once a year since meeting them for the first time, and unfortunately not being able to go this year, is already planning his visit for 2021. He speaks with his “new” family often, especially his brother whom he speaks to every day. ALSO READ: WATCH: Behind the scenes with Kruger’s K9 soldiers