MBOMBELA – During lockdown the church supported members of its congregation who were in need with grocery vouchers. The church was able to expand this project into a bigger outreach to feed the hungry. The CFCI Mbombela welfare group, run by Petro Wagenaar, decided to reach out to the under-privileged by providing them with meal tickets the week before, from the church in Silva Street. The event was well attended by the less fortunate and members of the welfare group. Attendees were given a home-cooked meal of pap, stew and a cold drink. Wagenaar started the day off with a prayer and a message to encourage them to never give up hope. She went on to assist them in giving their hearts to the Lord. ALSO READ: KNP field ranger goes missing After this they were each given a Bible. Some received one in their own language which would make it easier for them to read and understand. “At our church our motto is always: CFCI Mbombela is a praying, worshipping, serving and giving church. Our aim is to be true love ambassadors on a mission to start a love revolution in our city and surrounding areas. To reach out to a lost and broken world by being the hands and feet of Jesus. Due to the economic recession caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, many people have been left in dire straits in our city. Unemployment resulted in more people landing up homeless, without any income. As a welfare group we decided to feed the less fortunate people and encourage them to not give up hope,” she said. According to the church, it will be expanding its operations to Mozambique next year where it will head a mission just outside of Maputo to assist in meeting the needs of vulnerable children and the poor. Wagenaar went on to say that they are trusting God to expand the benevolent leg of their ministry in Mbombela and surrounds to meet the physical needs of vulnerable and destitute people, as well as a focus on skills development since they believe in a hand up and not a handout. “We would like to see people become who God created them to be and fulfil the destiny He created them for. With God there is always hope and we would like to provide people with the hope and a future that He intended for them.” According to Wagenaar, future projects of the church welfare group include a shelter for the homeless and addicted. Should anyone wish to get involved with the CFCI Mbombela Welfare group and programme, visit the church website on www.cfcim.org.za or contact Petro Wagenaar on 073-600-0134.  ALSO READ: Slight increase in Mpumalanga’s dam levels