The most recent amendments to South Africa’s level one lockdown regulations were gazetted yesterday.  It lists various relaxations to the body of rules that the country’s National Coronavirus Command Council has devised to assist in curbing the spread of Covid-19. Read Caxton Local Media’s summary of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address last night (2020/11/12). Alcohol sales have returned to normal in that liquor stores may sell during licenced trading hours as they did prior to lockdown. On-site consumption is still permitted, subject to the curfew announced in previous regulations, which remains midnight. To date, only 18 of the country’s borders have been operational. Now we have 52 borders and the 34 that have been closed up until now, remain closed. Whereas only certain categories of travellers were allowed to visit South Africa until now, this position has changed in terms of the newly gazetted regulations. Those who want to travel internationally must go for a Covid-19 test no more than 72 hours before travelling. If you don’t do this and provide a certificate indicating that you tested negative for Covid, you will have to quarantine at your own costs. The Departments of Home Affairs and Transport will issue directions with further details. International air travel is restricted to the OR Tambo, King Shaka and Cape Town International Airports. All commercial seaports will be opened.  The midnight curfew persists and continues until 04:00. Essential service permits authorising South Africans to work between midnight and 04:00 are available here. Visa applications will resume as soon as the Minister of Home Affairs has issued directions setting out how this will work. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).