After the Mpumalanga department of community safety, security and liaison  (DCSSL) tracked down the top 15 traffic offenders last week , six arrests were made since Saturday. One of the six arrested, Norman Mashaba was arrested in Matsulu on Saturday. He had 11 warrants of arrest, totaling   R23 500. Mashaba appeared in the Komatipoort Magistrate’s Court on Monday on two of the warrants and was sentenced to six months with the option of a R3 000 fine suspended for five years. He was remanded in custody pending his appearance in a number of courts , including the Tonga, Lows Creek and Nelspruit  Magistrate’s Courts to answer to similar charges.  ALSO READ: Lowveld motorists express their frustration over poor service delivery In another arrest, Delani Jabu Nkosi appeared in the Carolina Magistrate’s Court after failing to respond to eight warrants of arrests totaling  R19 700. He paid R14 000 and is expected back in court on November 17 for the outstanding warrants. Mxolisi Ngcobela also numbered among the six arrests and appeared in the Standerton Magistrate’s Court yesterd for warrants amounting to R8 400, which he settled. Sharon Beeget appeared in  the Lydenburg Magistrate’s Court after five warrants of arrest totaling R4 000 which she settled.  ALSO READ: Nelspruit licensing offices closure after positive Covid-19 case, adds to motorists’ woes The fifth person arrested, Vusi Mdluli, appeared in the Witbank Magistrate’s Court yesterday after five warrants of arrest were issued against him. He settled the amount of R6 000to secure his release from police custody. The last motorist arrested, Timothy Manzini, was arrested yesterday and appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court. Manzini was remanded in custody and is due to appear in court again today. The transport regulation manager of the DCSSL, Sibandiso Nkuna, pleaded with motorists and car owners to  settle fines and not wait until it is converted into warrants of arrest before responding.  ALSO READ: After slight delays in the morning, the Mbombela Licensing Department was online yesterday ” It is not the intention of the department to bring misery to people with these arrests. All we want to do is to encourage motorists and vehicle owners to come forward and pay the outstanding traffic fines. “We also believe that this will have on government to get motorists to obey the rules,  ” he said. Nkuna said that more arrests are imminent  and advised motorists not to wait until they are stopped by law enforcement officers. ALSO READ: Traffic learnership posts advertised by DCSSL are not for sale He added that the summonses are issued in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act  as a result of people not adhering to notices to appear in court. “Individuals who want to verify if they have outstanding traffic summonses should contact the department on 013- 766-1535 during working hours,” he concluded.