The four major construction projects under way on the N4 toll route are on track for completion as per the new deadlines. According to Trans African Concessions (TRAC), the projects’ timelines had to be extended earlier this year following the interruption of work due to the national lockdown. “The rehabilitation and/or upgrade projects under way are the rehabilitation of the concrete section between the OR Tambo and Van Dyksdrift interchanges in Middelburg, the rehabilitation and upgrade between Belfast and Machadodorp, the Karino interchange and the rehabilitation and upgrade between Kaapmuiden and Kaalrug in the Nkomazi region,” said TRAC spokesperson, Solange Soares. Restoration between OR Tambo and Van Dyksdrift interchanges roadworks commenced earlier this year and is 38 per cent complete. “The extensive project, being managed by Raubex Construction, is valued at approximately R380 million. This 19-kilometre stretch was originally built as a concrete road in 1972 and was overlaid in 2008. The rehabilitation and expansion project includes the removal and replacement of failed concrete slabs and overlaying the entire section. An additional seven kilometres of passing lanes will also be constructed. This project was initially scheduled for completion in November 2021 but has been rescheduled for March 2022,” Soares said. ALSO READ: Accident not caused by drone, says aircraft association Belfast-Machado upgradeThe extensive upgrade between Belfast and Machadodorp is moving along effectively and is 50 per cent complete. The R400 million project is being done under the auspices of WBHO and includes the construction of an interchange as well as the rehabilitation of 30 kilometres of Section 5B. The road in this area will also be upgraded to a four-lane carriageway. Roadworks have been rescheduled for completion in May 2022. Karino interchangeThis Mbombela-based project, valued at R390 million, is 50 per cent complete. Also managed by Raubex Construction, the project will see the existing intersection transformed into a grade-separated interchange, with on- and off-ramps and a bridge that will separate cross traffic from through traffic and thus ease flow at this extremely busy intersection. Kaapmuiden to Kaalrug upgrade This 15,5-kilometre road construction project is being managed by Tau Pele Construction and includes the upgrading of the carriageway to four lanes and the rehabilitation of the existing road. This initiative, valued at R340 million, is 50 per cent complete. Although it was expected to take 22 months to complete, it will now only be concluded in August 2021. “Although TRAC endeavours to prevent major disruptions due to road construction, traffic flow might be affected in certain areas, at specific times and during peak traffic,” Soares concluded. 