 The SAPS have now confirmed the two respective robberies that took place at Caltex Orchards N4 Nelspruit and El Madré Motors this morning. According to spokesperson for the Nelspruit Police Station, Zandile Gqawa, the first incident took place at Caltex Orchards where two men, believed to be the same suspects who robbed El Madré, entered the Fresh Stop store and ordered employees to lie on the floor. “An undisclosed amount of cash and some sweets were taken,” said Gqawa, confirming that no shots were fired and no injuries reported. Lowvelder earlier reported that two men robbed El Madré at exactly 04:50, as seen on CCTV footage. “One held the cashier at gunpoint while the other moved in behind the counter and emptied the till,” the manager, Vernon Allan said. “Two petrol attendants and one cashier were in the store when the incident occurred,” he confirmed. Allan added that one of the attendants hurried away while the robbery was in progress and climbed a nearby tree. “From what he could see, the suspects fled on foot and got into a getaway vehicle waiting at the Venn/Wilhelm intersection, close to Matumi Golf Estate,” he said. Gqawa confirmed that no arrests have been made as yet. Anyone with information can contact Det Col Ernest Maoka on 082-318-9843.  June 6, 11:54 – Two filling stations robbed in one morning in Mbombela MBOMBELA – At least two men are currently on the run after allegedly robbing two filling stations in the early hours of today. The first incident occurred at Caltex Orchards N4 Nelspruit around 01:00. The exact circumstances surrounding this are not yet known. The manager confirmed the incident, but declined further comment. ALSO READ: Suspect arrested for murder of Lt Col Leroy Bruwer It is believed that the same men, one of whom was armed with a pistol, targeted El Madré Motors four hours later. According to the manager of this filling station, Vernon Allan, two men entered the store at exactly 04:50, as seen on CCTV footage. “One held the cashier at gunpoint while the other went behind the counter and emptied the till,” he said. “Two petrol attendants and one cashier were in the store when the incident occurred,” Allan confirmed. He added that one of the attendants hurried away while the robbery was in progress and climbed a nearby tree. “From what he could see from there, the two men fled on foot and got into a getaway vehicle waiting at the Venn/Wilhelm intersection, close to Matumi Golf Estate,” he said. The vehicle was described as a white Toyota Corolla. In both incidents, a small amount of cash was taken and no injuries were sustained. This is a developing story, and more details will be provided as soon as they become available. The police did not respond to any of Lowvelder’s enquiries. ALSO READ: Hi-Tech warns: community not ready for crime surge to come  