With the slow ease on lockdown restrictions on level 3 more shops and industries have become operational. This has resulted in a steady flow of people again visiting i’langa Mall, and it is ready to deal with the influx of returning shoppers. “We have seen increased foot traffic throughout the centre since the easing of restrictions, as our retailers have decided to reopen. We welcome our loyal shoppers back,” said Fred Smith, general manager of the shopping centre. “Management has, in accordance with directives from our government and local health authorities, introduced a heightened level of precautionary measures to curb the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus. We continually maintain and adapt our Covid-19 strategy, refining our safety measures, protocols and processes to ensure a hygienic environment,” said Smith. “Our increased level of preventative measures includes intensified focus on centre-wide sanitation and disinfection using the prescribed alcohol-based cleaning materials.” In relation to other provinces, Mpumalanga still has a relatively low infection rate of 0,4 per cent. i’langa Mall said it supports government’s measures in curbing the spread of the virus. “We are happy to see our shoppers heading back to browsing the offerings of their favourite stores. We want to give them peace of mind that our retailers are acutely aware of the Covid-19 protocols, and mall management is closely monitoring, supporting and working alongside them to ensure shoppers remain safe in this high-traffic environment.” Tenants and staff members are equipped with the knowledge and best practice protocols to ensure that all safety and hygiene measures are continually maintained and observed. They have formulated their workplace health and safety plans, including Covid-19-safe planning, and staff are required to adhere thereto. Symptom screenings are undertaken daily at all stores. Social distancing is also encouraged with signs, queuing systems, and floor markers. The centre is working with individual retailers to ensure they keep up with the guideline of implementing four square metres of space between customers. “Our hygiene staff have increased cleaning schedules, targeted around high-contact areas such as door handles, handrails, lifts and escalators. Additional
precautionary regulations include the wearing of masks, which is compulsory, practicing distancing, and sanitising at the various stations located throughout the mall and at the main entrances. Printed directives and regulation notices can be found in all ablution facilities and floor markings can be seen predominantly at all high-traffic areas. We have adjusted our air-conditioning systems to maximise the intake of fresh air,” Smith added. “The safety of our customers, retailers and staff members has, and will always be, a top priority and we look forward to welcoming visitors back to i’langa Mall. It is heart-warming to see the self-discipline of our shoppers, who have already taken responsibility in respecting one another and doing what is required on a personal level to curb the spread of coronavirus,” he concluded. 