 ERMELO – Nzotho revealed that he fell in love with acting at a young age.”My mother used to work at a movie theatre in Johannesburg. Knowing how much I loved imitating presenters and actors, she asked one of the celebrities who went to watch movies how I could get on television and was told to appoint an agent. From there, I auditioned to be on YoTV,” said Nzotho. He moved from Ermelo to Johannesburg to pursue his passion. He started off as a presenter on YoTV for five years and from there, he fell even more in love with acting and started auditioning for other roles in the media industry. In the soapie, Nzotho plays the supporting role of a character named Kagiso, who is street-smart but lacks the courage to stand up for what he believes in. He was a presenter on SABC 1’s popular kids’ show YoTV from 2010 to 2015. He also made an appearance on Rented Family, SABC 1’s local sitcom, and appeared on a few adverts for Coca-Cola and MTN8 Wafa Wafa!, to name a few. ALSO READ: Support GRIP – buy a face mask “It has been my lifelong dream to be recognised as an actor and it is truly amazing to see it happening now. I went to audition for a smaller role, but a miracle happened,” said Nzotho. He revealed that he was once an extra for the soapie, and after that, he went to audition for other roles.”I auditioned for Jerah Moroka’s role, but due to my poor language proficiency in Tswana I did not get the part. However, that did not stop me.” According to Nzotho, people discouraged and undermined him because of where he came from and because of his home language, Ndebele. “It is important to surround yourself with positive and ambitious people. Those who you associate yourself with are the ones who build your character.” The actor mentioned that he has auditioned for two Netflix series and aims to go international soon. In the future, he plans on opening an art centre with the aim of improving skills and talent and instilling hope in the people of Mpumalanga. “People have been reaching out and wishing me well, but what I truly want is for them to feel inspired and know that anything is possible. It does not matter who you are or where you come from, be it a suburb or a village, you can make it if you believe,” he concluded. ALSO READ: Egpaar wie al 40 jaar in die Laeveld woon oorleef plaasaanval