 According to Elmarie du Toit, it “offers a fantastic range of quality pre-loved clothing, books, kitchenware, crockery, toys and a lot of other nice goodies at great prices. Du Toit said its favourite honey and figs that are usually sold at the office will also be on sale at the Pop-up Shop. Hospice is planning to do this monthly, with new surprises every time. Bargains can be found here and one can also donate unused goods. “We are urging locals to donate good quality, unused items to help keep our rails and shelves brimming with interesting finds.” Du Toit said the support of the community is what enables it to continue caring for people with life-threatening diseases, and providing support for their families. Nelspruit Hospice is a non-profit organisation and receives no funding from government. It provides palliative home-based care to anyone diagnosed with a life-threatening disease, within a 30 kilometres radius of Mbombela. “Our main source of income is through our own fundraising events and donations from the public. “On average we care for 40 patients and their families every month and the demand for our quality care services is increasing.” ALSO READ: Lack of cellphone signal leaves customers’ enraged Sister Landi Bezuidenhout, CEO and nursing service manager, completed a post graduate diploma in Palliative Medicine at the University of Cape Town, and Sister Lynne Liebenberg is experienced in caring for the elderly. They work closely with patients’ doctors, as well as social workers, caregivers, spiritual leaders and family members to develop an individualised plan of care for each patient. Should someone wish to make a monetary donation, either once-off or monthly, Nelspruit Hospice’s banking details are: 
Box
Nelspruit Hospice
FNB
Branch: Pinnacle
Code: 250016
Account number: 62093964891
Ref: Your surname. For donations over R500 the Hospice will issue an 18(A) certificate for tax purposes. Nelspruit Hospice can be contacted on 013-744-0095 or at reception@nelspruithospice.co.za.
Or visit the Facebook page  or website