 In preparation for World Environment Day, celebrated globally on June 5, Graskop Gorge Lift Company says it has been hard at work ridding the area of invasive weeds. General manager, Quinton Pretorius, says that in keeping with the motto ‘Water is Life’, they have called in the assistance of the Working for Water (a programme run by the Department of Environment, Forestry and Fisheries) high altitude teams to eradicate the invasive plant species that threaten the indigenous forest and stream flow around the gorge.  ALSO READ: Bail denied in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court for suspect who allegedly kills wife A statement released by the company says Pretorius worked for years with Working for Water and Working on Fire as national general manager of the high altitude team project, and knows the importance of not allowing alien vegetation to overwhelm fragile ecosystems. “We understand and appreciate that our facility is based not far from the source of the Graskop Gorge River that feeds our waterfall. Whatever we do affects the people and environment downstream from us. “By eradicating the invasive pinus, eucalyptus and foreign acacia species around our premises and along the riparian zones, we are securing streamflow for the future.” ALSO READ: Barberton SAPS closes after officer tests positive for Covid-19 Because what they do has an effect downstream, they “asked for assistance from Working for Water (state-sponsored experts) that uses the correct herbicides that will not leach or migrate into our pristine environment.” According to the United Nations, World Environment Day, this year hosted by Colombia, is the most renowned day for environmental action. ALSO READ: Three vehicles involved in CIT heist in Bushbuckridge “Since 1974, it has been celebrated every year on June 5: engaging governments, businesses, celebrities and citizens to focus their efforts on a pressing environmental issue. “This year, the theme is biodiversity – a concern that is both urgent and existential. Recent events, from bushfires in Brazil, the United States, and Australia, to locust infestations across East Africa – and now, a global disease pandemic – demonstrate the interdependence of humans and the webs of life, in which they exist.” On behalf of the Graskop Gorge Lift Company and the Big Swing, Pretorius wishes everyone a happy World Environment Day and asks that we all respect and nurture our beautiful environment.  Along with many others in the country, The Sabi Sand Wildtuin also celebrates the day, helping South Africa form part of the 143 other countries who take part in some way.