 Implementing a Time and Attendance system for your business will improve the accuracy of your attendance register. However, since COVID-19, the use of biometric devices for multiple employees has raised concern. PayDay has introduced various Contactless Time and Attendance solutions as part of the PayDay Visible (fully Integrated Time and Attendance) suite. PayDayMTA – A mobile Time and Attendance application that supports both Android and IOS platforms. Using their own mobile device, employees can either clock-in or clock-out from any location or within a specific geo-fenced radius. Some features include:  Facial Recognition Devices – PayDay’s integrated facial recognition devices use a high-speed face recognition algorithm with a high verification speed and low error rate. With the high-resolution infrared night vision light and professional camera, the terminals can carry out quick verification in any environment. What’s more is it supports face, fingerprint, user ID, password, RFID card (optional) and various combination methods, to satisfy the demands of different users.  Palm Reading Devices – Our multi-biometric identification Time & Attendance and access control terminal devices can connect with third party electronic locks, door sensors, and exit buttons. With the latest palm/fingerprint identification algorithm and streamlined technology, it can store up to 3000 individual templates.  Touchless Biometrics with Temperature and Mask Detection: A facial recognition terminal that uses intelligently engineered facial recognition algorithms and the latest computer vision technology. It supports both facial and palm verification with large capacity and speedy recognition, as well as improved security performance. The device adopts touchless recognition technology and new functions namely temperature detection and masked individual identification, which eliminates hygiene concerns effectively. It is also equipped with an ultimate anti-spoofing algorithm for facial recognition against almost all types of fake photos and videos. Importantly, the 3-in-1 palm recognition (Palm Shape, Palm Print and Palm Vein) is performed in 0.35 seconds per hand; the palm data acquired is compared with a maximum of 3,000 palm templates. The terminal with temperature and mask detection will be a perfect choice to help reduce the spread of germs and prevent infections at each access point of any premises. Public areas such as hospitals, factories, schools, commercial buildings, will benefit through adopting this solution. Read more about the latest Payroll Courses in South Africa  Touchless Biometrics with Temperature and Mask Detection: A facial recognition terminal that uses intelligently engineered facial recognition algorithms and the latest computer vision technology. It supports both facial and palm verification with large capacity and speedy recognition, as well as improved security performance. The device adopts touchless recognition technology and new functions namely temperature detection and masked individual identification, which eliminates hygiene concerns effectively. It is also equipped with an ultimate anti-spoofing algorithm for facial recognition against almost all types of fake photos and videos. Importantly, the 3-in-1 palm recognition (Palm Shape, Palm Print and Palm Vein) is performed in 0.35 seconds per hand; the palm data acquired is compared with a maximum of 3,000 palm templates. The terminal with temperature and mask detection will be a perfect choice to help reduce the spread of germs and prevent infections at each access point of any premises. Public areas such as hospitals, factories, schools, commercial buildings, will benefit through adopting this solution. Read more about the latest Payroll Courses in South Africa