 The organisers of the awards decided to curate an online exhibition – featuring all 60 shortlisted works – rather than postpone the event until after the national coronavirus lockdown. Now in its fourth year, the Innibos National Craft Awards has seen a steady growth in entries, with 1 360 works being submitted this year. The organisers pride themselves on keeping the competition as inclusive as possible and were thus thrilled with the number of emerging craftsmen who entered this year, the diversity of entries and the geographic spread of entrants. The winners shared R165 000 in prize-money. The Mpumalanga Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation spokesperson Sibongile Nkosi said at the announcement of the winners that she was pleased the organisers of the awards had adjusted to the ‘new normal’ of life during the coronavirus pandemic by creating an enabling platform for the participants’ work to be acknowledged. “We are thrilled to honour these artists for excellence and craftmanship,” said Standard Bank Innibos Arts Festival co-founder Sandra Jacobs.    Oageng is overall 2020 Innibos National Craft Awards winner  The overall winner of the 2020 Innibos National Craft Awards is Oageng Manana, whose dashiki chest of drawers, created from oak and birch, most impressed the judges.  Inspired by the dashiki, a boldly patterned West African garment, Johannesburg resident Oageng Manana’s hand-made chest of drawers most impressed the judges of the 2020 Innibos National Craft Awards. Oageng’s achievement was announced directly after the exhibition on June 26. As overall winner of the annual competition, he pockets R50 000. Second place was shared by Krugersdorp’s Pierre Fourie and Nelspruit’s Yolandi Diesel. Pierre’s entry was a majestic horse’s head crafted from hundreds of individual strands of 4mm-steel round bar, while Yolandi entered an intricately hand-carved animal skull. Joint second runner-up is Pierre Fourie (Troy: sculpted horse’s head).  Joint second-place winner is Yolandi Diesel for Benjamin, a beautifully carved animal skull. Third place went to Boksburg resident Clement Maenetja for his stunning range of ceramic plates, created to resemble the enamel plates of his youth. Third overall winner is Clement Maenetja for Memories. This year, four categories were added to the competition, thanks to the support of the National Department of Arts and Culture. The categories recognise craftsmen who make a living from their talent and who use recycled or heritage material. The category winners are: Curios: Saskia de Jager of Colesburg in the Northern Cape (Tribal Coffee Scoops). The Curio category winner is Saskia de Jager (Tribal Coffee Scoops, carved from indigenous wood). Corporate gifts: Zulu Mien of Johannesburg, in collaboration with the Rhubhani project (Bahlezi Necklace). Zulu Mien, in collaboration with the Rhubhani project, won the Corporate category (Bahlezi Necklace: glass beads and sterling silver). Beading: Sophie Mahlangu of Kameelrivier in Mpumalanga (Beaded Bicycle). Exif_JPEG_420 Recycling: Sibusiso Mlangeni of Orange Farm, Johannesburg (Nutcase Study). Sibusiso Mlangeni’s Nutcase Study earned him first place in the Recycling category. He used recycled computer hardware to create his entry. This year’s adjudication panel comprised Malibongwe Tyilo, Associate Editor of Maverick Life and style consultant; Ayanda Bala-Nyamimba, Craft and Design Institute: Market Development; Maureen Waldeck, Brand Manager of Tourvest Destination Retail; Anton Bosch, master ceramicist; Niel Nortje, MTN SA Foundation’s Art Collection Manager and Dawn Robertson, the CEO Constitutional Hill.  Innibos Digitaal Innibos Digitaal’s shows will be available until December, when it is hoped the ever-popular Innibos Arts Festival will, as usual, be hosted in Mpumalanga’s capital city of Mbombela. Tickets for Innibos Digitaal are available from Computicket.