 MBOMBELA – The delegation included the acting general officer commanding the SA Army Support Formation, Brig Gen Heinrich Stroebel, acting chief of the SA Army Force Preparation, Brig Gen Monwabisi Dyakopu, and chief of SA Army Human Resources, Brig Gen Nomsa Mkhize. The warrant officer of the SA Army, Senior Chief WO Eric Mtshatsheni, was also part of the delegation.
The visit to the ASB Mpumalanga was part of the second leg of a programme to visit all the units in the country. READ: IN PHOTOS: First day Kruger National Park sightings The aim of the programme is for Mbatha to acquaint himself with the state of the units on ground level and to interact with the members on a more personal level. A special gift in the form of a wooden box, handmade by the officer commanding Army Support Base Mpumalanga, was handed over to the chief of the army. Here are Maj Ntobe Mashau (second in command, Army Support Base Mpumalanga), Lt Gen Lawrence Mbatha, chief of the SA Army, and Lt Col Coen van Heerden, officer commanding Army Support Base Mpumalanga. The delegation was welcomed by the officer commanding Army Support Base Mpumalanga, Lt Col Coen van Heerden, and his staff officers. ALSO READ: Local tourism industry survey shows a long recovery ahead A detailed presentation on the current situation in the unit, its challenges and accomplishments, was presented.
After the presentation, the delegation was afforded the opportunity to visit the different service centres where members were briefed by the service centre managers. The chief of the SA Army, Lt Gen Lawrence Mbatha, and the acting GOC, SA Army Support Formation, Brig Gen Heinrich Stroebel, on the podium during a parade held at Army Support Base Mpumalanga. The chief also addressed all unit members on parade. In his address, Mbatha elaborated on the purpose of the visit. He expressed his appreciation for the service rendered by the unit. Special mention was made of the contribution of the soldiers during the Covid-19 coronavirus lockdown period, to the deployed members as well as the units rendering logistical support to the deployed forces. He emphasised that the Covid-19 is a real threat to all citizens and that we must adhere to the regulations to keep their own members, as well as fellow South Africans safe. Mbatha also granted the opportunity to members of the unit to ask direct questions, and to address matters of concern to enable them to rectify problems as soon as possible. During a function, the ASB Mpumalanga presented a gift to Mbatha in the form of a handmade wooden cool box, made by Van Heerden, and rounded off with a stainless steel plate with the unit emblem embossed on the lid. The ASB Mpumalanga appreciated the effort made by the chief and the senior delegation to visit the unit.
Van Heerden once again confirmed the ASB Mpumalanga’s support to the SA National Defence Force, the SA Army, its clients and the community.