 “The rubber compound used by Adidas for high-grip soles and supplied by Continental labs in Hanover Germany, offers 30 per cent more grip and excellent power transmission,” says Continental. Konstantin Efimov, a graduate chemist for Continental indicates that their rubber offers measurable advantages.
“Slippage is much lower. A runner slips one to two millimetres per stride. Over a marathon distance of 42,2 kilometres, the Continental compound gives the runner an advantage of 35 to 70 metres,” he said. READ: Innibos National Craft Awards 2020 go digital To answer just some of those questions for first time morning runners, Continental Tire have consulted with sports physicians and running coaches to bring you the best of both worlds – excellent advice and of course, good running shoes. Running with a mask Although this is mandatory – for now – a mask certainly is not the most comfortable piece of clothing to wear during your run. “You may well find it challenging to establish a comfortable rhythm. If you run with a partner – alongside – keep a distance of two metres between you. When running behind someone, 15 metres in between, is advisable.” How long or fast should you run Well, if you are new to running, your body will require time to adjust to the exercise so it would be wise to “not run more than three times per week and for not longer than 30 to 40 minutes. Keep a day open between runs but also, don’t run just once per week.”
Any effort to show yourself, or someone else that you can still run a kilometre in your high school time, will cost you – dearly even! Don’t go there. Start slow – at a pace that will allow you to have a comfortable conversation with your running partner. “Apply the 80/20 rule. Eighty per cent comfortable pace and 20 per cent intensive. This, says the experts, “is when you burn the most fat”. Which is best – a morning or afternoon run “Most people have two performance peaks – the first being between 09:00 and 11:00 and then again between 16:00 and 19:00.” Does this make sense to you? Running after work can be an excellent destressor.
“The endorphins released during the morning run, will of course render a serious pick-me-up of ‘happiness hormones’ and with all the Covid-19 challenges on hand, this may well be just what the doctor ordered. Before or after meals Most runners will agree that running straight after a meal, is not a good idea. “If you run in the morning, eat breakfast after the run. If you really need something beforehand, a banana is always a good choice.” Stretching or warm up before running If you start with an easy pace, stretching is not necessary. “Stretching after your run, especially for beginners, is critical” says the experts as it accelerates relaxation. “If running is to be a serious pass time, it is also advisable that you engage in an exercise program to strengthen your core. And, you do not need a gym for this. Exercise against your own body weight, planks, push-ups and such will strengthen your core.” Jog/run while pushing a stroller?

Short answer – not advisable unless the baby in the stroller is strong enough to hold his/her head up unaided. Music to your ears Experts advise that joggers, if you insist, to listen to music that offers a 150 to 180 beats per minute.
“For beginners listening to music, may well cause them to lose their rhythm and trying to get this right during your run, can be exhausting in itself. Important also is to listen at a volume level that will still allow you to hear other runners, cyclist and of course, cars.” Running shoes Old running shoes? “If in doubt, don’t wear them,” say the experts. Is that answer firm enough for you?
And of course, Continental suggest that you buy Adidas with Continental soles – “it provides optimum grip for healthy and comfortable running.
“A runner’s feet have to cushion the equivalent of four times their body weight.” The experts conclude that one should also buy running shoes one size larger than your regular footwear. “This is to accommodate the natural swelling of the feet during running.”
Your running shoes are going to take a beating. If you buy or run with cheap shoes your body will take that beating. And, as you get older, it will come back to haunt you! Photos: Continental/QuickPic