 MBOMBELA – The city centre came to a virtual standstill after police were deployed to Mbombela Taxi Rank in Bester Street this morning. This after taxi drivers proceeded to fill their taxis to 100 per cent following a call from the South African National Taxi Association’s (Santaco) resolution to do so. Santaco also resolved that long-distance operators would continue working without permits in contravention of the Disaster Management Act during the Covid-19 pandemic. Police at the entrance to Mbombela Taxi Rank. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Barberton Medium B escapee apprehended after one day on the run The South African minister of transport, Fikile Mbalula, denounced this course of action and said, “We condemn in the strongest possible terms, any call encouraging taxi operators to violate provisions of the law and promote lawlessness. “We remain committed to taking forward our engagements and encourage the industry any form of protest they embark upon, is within the parameters of the law.” Thokozane Zulu, a local taxi operator, told Lowvelder that the minister was being “irrational” in his refusal to hear them out. “Mbalula promised us a sum of R5 000 for each taxi to compensate us for the loss that we had as we had to carry only 70 per cent, but we have not received anything yet. A pedestrian crossing the street as police advance. ALSO READ: Seven dead after bus overturns on the R532 between Graskop and Orighstad “We are losing money and can’t pay our monthly car installments. I have not been able to pay for my taxi for the past two months. The car dealerships have not granted us any payment holidays, so it is really stressing us out. That is why we have decided to carry 100 per cent capacity,” he said. Police blockaded a number of roads in Valencia, KaNyamazane, Pienaar, Lekazi and KaMagugu this morning, which resulted in chaos erupting at Mbombela Taxi Rank. Commuters and taxi operators fled after police fired rubber bullets to disperse the gathering crowds at the entrance to the taxi rank. Barricades were set up and tyres burned by protesting taxi operators, to deny police access to the taxi rank.  ALSO READ: Mhala police station closed after officer tests positive for Covid-19 virus Nelspruit police spokesperson, Capt Zandile Gqawa, reported that police were monitoring the situation and added that no injuries has been reported as the situation was still under control.  