 This cross-over body-styled model expands the Figo line-up and ads another competitor to the Sub-B CUV (compact utility vehicle) segment. What distinguishes the Freestyle from its siblings, is the higher ground clearance and larger wheels and dynamic details on the exterior which included model-specific bumpers – slight changes to the grille and of course, those front and rear skid plates.  Roof rails ads the finishing touch to enhance the Freestyle’s sense of adventure. ALSO READ: A small decline in road deaths dictates improved education The Freestyle will be available in two derivatives – the Trend and the Titanium. The latter boasting features like automatic headlamps, keyless start, a 6.5 Touch display on the dashboard, a reverse camera, and more. My walk-around the car, when collecting it at the dealership left me with a subtle excitement because although I drive the previous model Figo (diesel), I have not had the opportunity to drive this new derivative since its launch. The latter was launched right after I bought my Figo. The seats are most definitely more comfortable and supportive than the previous model. The interior offers slightly improved front and rear legroom but I am not convinced that the boot is larger than the previous sibling but then, I did not pull out a measuring tape to prove my observation.  The interior is, nevertheless, true blue blood Ford. Sporting steering wheel, high seating position with excellent visibility on the analog cluster, and excellent colour coordination throughout the cabin. Yeah – I like it! The Freestyle Titanium is also kitted with Ford SYNC3 with four speakers, USB port, Bluetooth, and of course that 6,5-inch Touchscreen. The freestyle is kitted with a three-cylinder 1.5-litre engine producing a good and responsive 88kW with 150Nm. This power is pushed to the front wheels through a smooth, precise, and quiet shifting five-speed manual gearbox. I took a drive out on the Montrose route and was impressed with the responsiveness of the 1.5. The engine note – so typical and Porsche-like of three-cylinder cars, just adds to the sportiness of the Freestyle. What impressed me most, however, was the suspension set-up. It absolutely soaked up the bumps in the road rendering a driving experience equal to that of a larger and much heavier vehicle and certainly way better than my current Figo. Steering is light and responsive. Certainly a bonus for those tight parking spots.  Although the Freestyle has not officially been launched yet, it is available at the dealers. I am of the opinion that the Ford heritage may just give this little cross-over the edge on its competitors but then, I don’t have the last say on this – the market response will be the proof of the pudding… Pricing starts at R202 100 ALSO READ: May 2020 sales show fractional improvement