 On May 20 the Department of Trade and Industry gazetted permission to allow this but under strict Covid-19 protocols. As from Monday, June 8 dealers have been allowed to operate at 100 per cent of capacity while still practising compliance to these Covid-19 health protocols. Lowvelderspoke to a number of business owners and dealer principals about the first week and their expectations for the immediate future. At the testing stations, the biggest challenge seems to the limitation on the number of vehicles that can be tested per day. “We can do more than a 100 per day, but the department has limited us to do only 60,” said the owner of Supreme Testing Station in Mbombela, Arthur Webb. ALSO READ: A small decline on road deaths dictates improved education “This does not assist in terms of working through the backlog though. And also what happens now is that customers arrive with their vehicles for a roadworthy test when our daily quota has already been achieved. They are then required to return again the next day. This is not cost-effective and places a heavy burden on all involved.” For dealer principal of Palm Motors in White River, Dirk van der Merwe, the “glass is half full”. “The demands on the workshop is quite challenging. Budgets are tight and customers find it difficult to decide on what work can or should be done. Pre-owned sales is alive and well and there is a demand for smaller vehicles.” “Things are actually a little better than expected,” said Stephan Venter – general manager at Westvaal Numbi Ford in White River. “There certainly still is a demand for upper-segment vehicles but we do detect some distress sales as buyers attempt to benefit from lower premiums and payment holidays attached to some offers. The market is anxious – employers and employees are anxious and if ever there was a need for empathy and compassion towards the next person, it is now,” concluded Stephan. This sentiment was also expressed by Garden City Motors (Mercedes-Benz). “We are aware of the importance of adhering to and applying all the Covid-19 protocols. Workshop services are strictly by appointment. In sales, customers are not allowed to just wander around and randomly inspect vehicles. Covid-19 has, within our business and among our staff, certainly created a much more mindful approach to everything that we do – there is also more gratitude for the privilege of being able to do what we do.” So the general mood among dealers is positive, grateful and everyone is looking forward to welcoming you at their dealership. The backlog in terms of registrations at the Mbombela Licensing Department is causing some concern and although the newspaper approached the spokesperson for the Mbombela municipality for comment, no response was forthcoming at the time of going to press. Government Notice 544 does provide some relief for those whose learner’s, driver’s licences, motor vehicle licence discs, roadworthy certificates, temporary permits have expired during the lockdown period of May 26 to 31, 2020. These will all be deemed valid for an extended period of 90 days from June 1, 2020. Although car licences can also now be renewed at the post office, it is best avoided between the fourth to seventh and the 21st of the month. ALSO READ: The Freestyle offers youthfulness which will enhance your status in the crowd