 MBOMBELA – A semblance of normality appears to have returned to the city’s CBD after taxi operators went on the rampage yesterday. The protests were sparked by operators refusing to adhere to social distancing regulations and loading taxis to full capacity. Reports from a number of commuters travelling from KaBokweni, Matsulu, Mganduzweni, Hazyview and Msholozi to Mbombela indicate that the taxi operators continue to load vehicles at 100 per cent capacity.  ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Mbombela at a standstill after taxi operators go on strike over capacity dispute Thobile Mlangeni, who makes use of these services, said taxis have been overloaded, especially when commuters return home after work. “In the taxi I travelled in yesterday, there were a few passengers who were standing as a result of overloading. Commuters were not sanitised, which is a worrying factor in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. Lungelo Ngininda. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Death toll in R532 bus accident climbs to nine Masabatha Mnyambo, who commutes from KaBokweni to Mbombela every day, said her greatest concerns were non-compliance with social distancing and the unavailability of sanitiser, especially after handling change in the taxis. Another taxi commuter, Duduzile Mtetwa, makes her way from Matsulu to Mbombela daily. She expressed alarm over the quality of sanitising liquids offered to commuters. It is business as usual at the Mbombela Taxi Rank. ALSO READ: Police shot a journalist covering taxi riots at KaNyamazane “To me, it appears to be a mixture of spirits and vinegar and I doubt that this is effective in curbing the spread of the coronavirus,” she said. Malambula Sibanyoni, the Mpumalanga Santaco chairperson, said there were no issues to report today after a resolution had been reached between protesting taxi operators and the police. He explained that the industry had not received any subsidies from government during the national lockdown and urged commuters to bear with it. Taxis are operating normally in the aftermath of yesterday’s protests. ALSO READ: Pilot died near Elandshoek saving four lives “We plead with commuters to meet us halfway. Understand that we have had no income for the past three months which has placed us in the difficult position of being unable to provide hand sanitiser and face masks. “When boarding a taxi, please bring your own hand sanitiser and wear a face mask to help prevent the spread of Covid-19,” said Sibanyoni. A visit to the Mbombela Taxi Rank earlier today revealed that the taxis were operating in full swing with queue marshals providing hand sanitiser and checking the commuters’ temperatures. 