 Freight and cargo companies have now started using alternative routes or withdrawn from Mozambique completely. According to a local cargo company the backlog at the border is not only a financial concern, but also a health concern. “There is no way for us to check on our drivers’ health during this time. They are in their trucks on the Mozambican side of the border for four days with no proper health regulations or implementations. We are sending our drivers home to their families after they could have possibly been exposed by having to wait for so long to return to South Africa. This is a very difficult and sad time,” said a representative of the company
The financial implications are a serious issue. “Where it usually takes 1,4 days per load to go to Mozambique, offload and return to South Africa. It is now taking up to six days. We are currently operating at a loss and it is the first time in 15 years that we have had to refrain from using the Maputo Corridor and are forced to use other routes or find other business.” ALSO READ: Queue at Lebombo/Ressano Garcia stretches for kilometres Another operator mentioned that there has been no change at all regarding the backlog and that he thinks “The South African side to enter Mozambique has gotten worse over the last few days”. This company has also withdrawn vehicles, although it has clients that it still needs to service on the Maputo Corridor route. ALSO READ: Queues at Lebombo border stretching kilometres long “The major issue is still to return back to South Africa. A round trip currently to cross the border, offload, and cross back into the country is 49 hours compared to six to eight hours previously.” The company member also mentioned that this backlog has serious financial implications. “If all the tipper companies remove their vehicles because the route is not viable anymore, both South African and Mozambican economies will suffer a great deal.”
Lowvelder has tried to get into contact with the Department of Transport, to no avail.