 This is the inspiration behind the S-Presso, a new urban SUV that condenses all the best Suzuki characteristics in a compact and affordable package. “We are very excited to introduce the new Suzuki S-Presso in South Africa. It combines many of our most advanced technologies, such as our HEARTECT platform, with our compact SUV expertise to offer a compact, but roomy and well-specified new urban SUV that is truly within everyone’s reach,” said André Venter, divisional manager for sales and marketing at Suzuki Auto South Africa.  Viewed from the front, the S-Presso catches the eye with its bold four-slot grille with large S-emblem. The grille is flanked by squared-off halogen headlamps, with a distinct differentiation between the integrated indicators and main headlamps. The more exclusive S-Edition features silver highlights in the four-slot grille, silver front and rear skid plates and bold side cladding over the wheel arches and on the lower sections of the doors. The protective side cladding on the doors is further emphasised by a large silver panel insert, which visually connects the front and rear silver skid plates.  HEARTECT is Suzuki’s latest-generation platform that underpins models such as the Dzire, Ignis and Swift. It utilises precision engineering and high- and ultra-high tensile steel to create a platform that is not only very light, but also very rigid. This translates into better performance and handling, lower noise, vibration and harshness as well as class-leading passive safety. Sitting atop the HEARTECT platform is Suzuki’s Total Effective Control Technology (TECT) bodyshell, which uses all of the same materials and engineering principles to create an equally safe and rigid shell around the occupants. The TECT and HEARTECT technologies integrate seamlessly and offer crumple zones and channels for dispersing energy in side-, front- or rear impacts to create a truly safe bodyshell.  Safety first
All models in the new S-Presso range feature two airbags as standard and is fitted with and anti-lock braking system (ABS) with emergency brake-force distribution (EBD) and reverse parking sensors as standard, while GL+ and S-Edition models will further complement this system with an in-built reverse camera. Active safety features, which include two airbags and ABS with EBD, will offer the best possible protection within the TECT safety cocoon. Interior fit for a funky SUV Bold and unique dashboard design with central digital speedometer. High level of specification across the range includes a seven-inch colour infotainment system on GL+ and S-Edition models.
Designed for legibility and ease of use, this centre console allows the driver to view and control the most important vehicle features effortlessly from behind the wheel. It also creates a circular motif, which Suzuki’s designers have replicated in the air conditioning unit mounted below the circular console, the 12V plug and the side-mounted air vents.
All versions of the S-Presso are very well equipped and feature electric windows for the front occupants, rear parking sensors, air conditioning, power steering and a multi-information display, which includes information such as distance to empty, trip duration and distance travelled.
On the GL+ model, Suzuki has bumped up the specification with its much-loved full-colour infotainment system. This system is touch sensitive and includes full integration for most smartphones through the in-built Apple CarPlay and Android Auto systems. This full colour infotainment system also offers USB and auxiliary ports and Bluetooth connectivity as standard, and will display the image from the in-built reverse camera on the screen. Peppy and frugal – K10B petrol engine The engine produces 50kW and 90Nm of torque and boasts an average fuel consumption of 4,9 litres/100km.
The K10B engine drives the front wheels through a five-speed manual gearbox or a five-speed automated manual transmission (AMT), with the latter using Suzuki’s Automated Gear Selection (AGS) technology for smooth shifts using a manual transmission with self-actuating clutch. The AGS system also has an in-built crawl function to allow for fuss-free driving in stop-and-go traffic. Service plan and mechanical warranty included Promotional five-year/200 000km mechanical warranty returns. All S-Presso models sold with one year’s complimentary insurance and a two-year/30 000km service plan and five-year/200 000km mechanical warranty, further proving that budget vehicles do not have to offer sparse features. Indeed, Suzuki has even added a year of complimentary insurance included in the price.