 After 67 days of lockdown, South African fishermen, hunters and wildlife enthusiasts were relieved to hear that they may fish, hunt and visit the country’s national parks for self-drive excursions. Meanwhile, enthusiasts of individual sports have to interpret the regulations themselves to determine which activities are allowed and which are not. Albi Modise, spokesman for the Department of Environment, Forestry and Fisheries, confirmed that hunting, fishing and self-drive visits to national parks are allowed during the third phase of South Africa’s attempts to curb the spread of Covid-19, also known as ‘lockdown’.    Although self-drive excursions in public and private game reserves have been permitted since 1 June, not all South African parks have opened their gates yet. Those who want to visit national parks have been advised to contact the relevant park and determine when it will reopen. Click here for SANParks contact details. All regulations on personal movement apply. This means that travel between provinces will not be permitted for recreational purposes.  The Department of Transport’s capacity restrictions as gazetted remain binding. Many South Africans who practise individual sports remain unsure whether (and if so, how) they can practice these sports. During media briefings in May, the National Command Council indicated that Mthethwa would provide clarity, but none was given during his most recent address on 30 May. Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Ronald Lamola, said that South Africans may exercise between 6am and 6pm, as long as they practice social distancing and do not exercise in groups. Mthethwa clarified on the weekend that contact sports remain prohibited. Helene Eloff, an admitted attorney and legal advisor of CTP Limited, said that individual sportsmen should look to the regulations for guidance.  She listed and discussed the places and premises closed to the public. According to Eloff, there are exceptions to some of these rules. Click here for more on the exceptions. She illustrated this with two examples. What about professional non-contact sports? The regulations indicate that professional non-contact sports matches may be held subject to the lockdown regulations and may only include players, match officials, journalists and medicinal and television crew. Further information will be made available by the ministers of sport and health soon. At the time of publication, no deadline had been announced for this to happen.