 MBOMBELA – A colleague, who asked not to be named for fear of victimisation, claimed that not all the protocols were followed after the employee was suspected of contracting the coronavirus. The source added that the stores affected included Guess, Exact, Forever New and Aldo. “As the staff of the store in question, we feel that our lives have been placed at risk because we may have come into contact with the virus. The symptoms take about five to six days to show and we may have been exposed before Sunday,” the source said. Lowvelder held a meeting with i’langa Mall general manager, Fred Smith, who contended that the mall management observed all the hygiene protocols prescribed by the Department of Health in the event that an employee is suspected to have contracted Covid-19. “Government has laid down specific protocols which we fully subscribe and adhere to,” Smith said. He explained that, to protect the identity of the employee, test results are not publicised and added that immediate contact was made to alert the department about a suspected coronavirus case at the mall. ALSO READ:Lockdown level 3 in pictures “We confirm that all sanitising and disinfection protocols were strictly adhered to, including immediate contact with the Department of Health. The store was immediately closed, decontaminated and sanitised, followed by a change of staff complement,” he said. According to the general manager, the entire mall was immediately disinfected to protect employees and shoppers. “In terms of government regulations, every employer has the responsibility to screen their staff diligently on an ongoing basis, and all our tenants have confirmed their continued adherence to these regulations.
“We are encouraged that the department is satisfied with our reaction to this case and the mall remains fully open for trade,” said Smith. On Tuesday, Lowvelder received another call alleging that the infection rate at the mall had climbed and that the stores mentioned earlier were affected. Smith dismissed these claims and reiterated that the stores were sanitised and all prescribed hygiene measures followed after the initial suspected case of the coronavirus at i’langa Mall. “In terms of multiple cases found in the mall we can comment that this is absolutely false. The stores mentioned are open and trading fully,” he said. The Mpumalanga health department’s head of communications, Dumisane Malamulele, said a resolution was taken by the province’s Covid-19 command council not to release the identity of anyone who has contracted the virus. “We can only pinpoint cases in terms of districts because of the stigma attached to those suspected to have contracted the coronavirus and not specific locations,” he said. This is after a community vowed to hunt down and kill a resident suspected of having contracted the virus in the early days of the national lockdown. Smith cautioned the public against mass hysteria and urged all shoppers at i’langa Mall to continue adhering to the protocols such as regular washing or sanitising of hands and wearing cloth masks when out shopping, to slow the spread. ALSO READ: Lockdown level 3 in pictures