Notice is hereby given in terms of section 49 (1) (a) (i) read together with section 78 (6) of the Local Government: Municipal Property Rates Act, 2004, hereinafter referred to as the “Act” that the supplementary valuation roll for the financial year 1 July, 2019 to 30 June, 2020 is open for public inspection at the Mbombela municipal offices or at website:  www.mbombela .gov.za from 1 July, 2020 to 7 August, 2020. An invitation is hereby made in terms of section 49 (1) (a) (ii) read together with section 78 (6) of the Act that any owner of property or other person who so desires should lodge an objection with the municipal manager in respect of any matter reflected in, or omitted from, the valuation roll within the above mentioned period. Attention is specifically drawn to the fact that an objection must be in relation to a specific individual property and not against the valuation roll as such. The form for lodging objection is obtainable at the following addresses: Barberton Civic Centre; Nelspruit Civic Centre;  White River Civic Centre; Hazyview Municipal Services Centre, KaNyamazane Municipal Services Centre, Matsulu Municipal Services Centre, KaBokweni Municipal Services Centre or downloaded from the website: www.mbombela .gov.za. The completed forms must be returned to the above mentioned municipal offices or posted. NB: The municipality will take no responsibility for late objection forms posted unless if a registered mail facility has been used, therefore the use of registered mail or courier services is advised. All envelopes should be clearly marked OBJECTION FORM. Facsimiled or emailed objections form will not be accepted. Property owners (for only affected properties by the supplementary valuations process) that have not received mailed notices by 30 June, 2020 are requested to visit the municipal offices.  For more information or enquiries please contact Ms Pamela Mokoena on  013 759 9220 or Ms Silindile Zwane on 013 759 9273. Visit the City’s website at www.mbombela.gov.za and the e-tenders portal at www.etenders.gov.za for any updates, addenda and notices.  