 Switchcom is a dynamic and innovative ICT company founded in 2015 to bring South Africa leading wired and wireless solutions. Switchcom offers an extensive product range including wireless network equipment, fibre cable & accessories, surveillance cameras, structured cabling, solar solutions, installation material, VoIP equipment, and more. Our comprehensive product range supports our vision of providing our clients with an end-to-end solution.  Our services comprise of sales, distribution, technical support, training and financing for sub-distributors, resellers, installers, internet service providers, wireless internet service providers as well as end-users.  Connecting people is our customer’s business and we are committed to supporting them with the best products and value-added service to help them elevate their position in our industry. Switchcom was born with the mission to serve with passion, knowledge, and inspiration.  We constantly push ourselves to grow by learning, offering better support, and giving more time to our customers and the goals that they aim to achieve. What does Switchcom Offer, what brands: Authorized distributor? Wireless networking is renowned for its flexibility.  We offer a wide range of products to help our customers find the right solution for their environment. Switchcom is South-Africa’s sole distributor for ALGCOM (ALGcom does not only include antennas but also horn sectors, armored boxes, and AC/DC UPSs all designed to fit every installation’s unique requirements). We are a MikroTik Master Distributor and distribute Ubiquity, Cambium, Mimosa, and Poynting. For wired networking we offer everything from network cabinets to patch panels, indoor and outdoor cable, flyleads, switches, and routers. We understand the diverse market and that our customers have different requirements and security concerns. Therefore, we can offer them a wide variety of brands such as Dlink, Extralink, Huawei, Mercusys, Netgear, Totolink, Trendnet, TPLink, Tenda, and Fortinet. We have spent time developing our in-house fibre range to ensure high quality at great prices.  Fibre cable, patch leads, pigtails, mid couplers, distribution boxes, splicers, OTDR’s – we have it all! We even offer daily, weekly or monthly rentals on splicers and OTDR’s. We are firm believers in the value a product offers and aim to not only sell products but also solutions.  This reflects in our surveillance offering.  From smart retail, residential, and banking solutions. Our expertise with Dahua and Hikvision will ensure that our customers add value to every product they supply to their customers.  We trust Samsung, Seagate, and Western Digital for all video storage in our recorders. Whether you need a complete solution or just an end-user device, we support Fanvil, Gigaset, Snom, and Grandstream VOIP system. We let our customers focus on their core business while we aim to provide them with everything they will need.  We even supply them with installation material like trunking, conduit, aluminum, and galvanized poles, bracket, bolts, nuts, cable ties, and much more! We can assist our customers with a range of value-added services: What are the benefits of using switchcom in your business? The Switchcom ethos is simple: we aim to deliver only the best to our customers. By building our business model around our customers we constantly exceed their expectations and supply everything they need for their projects. We go out of our way to always be available.  Emergency’s and system failures are not only limited to weekdays and our customers can count on us to be available over weekends, public holidays as well as during the Christmas period. For our smaller customers that need to compete with their bigger competitors, we offer flexible finance options to keep their business running smoothly when taking on bigger projects. We offer free delivery that helps our customers save money. Where is Switchcom Distribution Based? Switchcom Distribution is situated in Johannesburg/Gauteng (49 Galaxy Ave in Linbro business park). Step by step guide how to get your hands on the highest quality brands in South Africa. Facebook:  https://www.facebook.com/SwitchcomDistribution/ Twitter:  https://twitter.com/SwitchcomD Simply complete our dealer application that is available on our website or ask one of the sales experts to email it to you. After registering they will be able to enjoy all the benefits we have to offer. If you are a networking or telecommunication technician, installer, ISP, WISP, Networking Retailer, Reseller, or Service provider, we invite you to register with us. Our goal is to become the supplier of choice in Southern Africa and surrounds.