 On June 28, 2020,  Minister of Tourism, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane issued updated directives summarising what those in the tourism industry may and may not do during the relaxed phase of level 3 lockdown. Many South Africans have been eagerly awaiting this relaxation and have questions on the practicalities associated with travelling and tourism. Caxton Local Media answers some frequently asked questions. In short, you may travel within provincial boundaries for leisure purposes. However, you may not cross provincial boundaries for that reason. What follows is a more detailed explanation. Also read: Air travel in South Africa during lockdown level 3. Personal movement within provincial boundaries: While lockdown Level 3 persists, South Africans may leave their homes to obtain permitted goods and services. Following recent relaxations, we may leave our homes to ‘travel for leisure purposes’. All economic activities have been permitted, with the exception of a few.  Personal movement between provinces: Inter-provincial travel is still prohibited. Although a host of exceptions apply, travel for leisure purposes is not among these exceptions.  Transport regulations: The Department of Transport’s directives indicate that vehicles may only be filled to a certain percentage of its capacity. The following limits apply to public transport: These rules will apply to those who travel for leisure purposes. Those who want to visit national parks for self-drive excursions should contact the relevant park and determine what its lockdown regulations entail. Click here for SANParks contact details. According to the latest directives, “entry onto the premises of a tourist attraction must only be allowed for self-drive excursion; and for private vehicles that comply with the directions issued by the Minister of Transport in respect of private vehicles.” As movement restrictions apply, you will only be able to travel to game reserves located in your province. The author, Helene Eloff, is an admitted attorney and the legal advisor of CTP Limited.  *Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).