 PRETORIA- A multidisciplinary team consisting of the Hawks’s Tactical Operations Management Section (TOMS) and Special Task Force members responded to an armed robbery in progress in Mahikeng road near Itoseng Township during an intelligence-driven operation. A group of heavily armed suspects used explosives to open the vault of a Fidelity armoured vehicle after they fired shots at it and forced it to stop. A shootout ensued with the responding team but the suspects managed to escape the scene without any cash. They allegedly included Pascal Wiseman Langu (48), Tebo Phuthegolo, also known as Boitumelo Mashishi, and Jabulani Andrew Sibisi alias Mkhulu (53). Suspect 1 An extended search for the suspects was launched and TOMS members spotted one of the getaway vehicles, a white Ford Ranger double cab which they pursued. A shootout ensued and WO Grobler-Koonin was fatally wounded. Later that afternoon, intelligence was received regarding the sought suspects in a Toyota Quantum minibus allegedly driving from Mahikeng towards Coligny. The tracking team spotted the minibus at the Total Filling Station in Coligny. Suspect 2 Upon seeing the police, the robbers opened fire and members retaliated. During the shootout WO Wynand Herbst was fatally wounded and three of the six robbers inside the minibus were shot dead, while three were apprehended.
The public is warned not to approach the wanted suspects as they are considered armed and dangerous. Any member of the public who might be harbouring the wanted suspects is being warned to immediately desist from such as it is a criminal offence which could lead to them being charged as accessories of crime. Suspect 3 The Directorate for Priory Crime Investigation appeals to anyone with any information on the whereabouts of the sought suspects to contact Lt Col Gert Serfontein on 071-481-3394 or WO Trevor Shaw on 082-697-5873, alternatively to contact the SAPS Crime Stop number 086-00-10111 or provide information via the SAPS MYSAPSAPP. All information will be treated with strictest confidence and callers may remain anonymous.