In the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus, the Department of Health in the province, led by MEC Sasekani Manzini, continues to keep an eye on companies, businesses and even schools. Manzini’s quest to monitor compliance to Covid-19 regulations led her to Sappi Ngodwana Mill and institutions of higher learning.  “These visits form part of our programmes as a department, to keep tabs on companies, businesses, factories and institutions of higher learning throughout the province. “This is us implementing on our promise that will be conducting such regular visits to ensure that everyone, especially companies and businesses, are complying with regulations,” said Manzini.  Since the pandemic hit these shores she has never taken a break, but has been hard at work visiting a number of communities, companies, mines and healthcare facilities, just to ensure smooth running of operations in the fight against this pandemic. “I refuse to take a break and rest when we are faced with such an enemy. This virus needs all of us to join hands and work together. This is the reason I am all over the province, interacting with companies and businesses so we can all find a common ground that will help us defeat this virus,” she said.  “I am happy to say that companies such as Sappi and many others in the province are willing to work with us and are complying with the regulations. Some companies are eager to learn from us on how to comply and meet all the required regulations. This motivates us to continue with our work, knowing full well that we have support,” continued Manzini. “In Sappi, for instance, I did a walkabout, checking if the company does ensure that its employees are working in a Covid-19 free and safe environment and I was happy with what I saw,” she went on.  Manzini also visited institutions of high learning in Mbombela to monitor compliance and to check the state of readiness to resume learning and teaching and ensure that necessary safety measures are applied to prevent the spread the virus. The MEC started at the Tshwane University of Technology Mbombela Campus and proceeded to Ehlanzeni TVET College Campus.