 Since the start of the global pandemic, we have seen a significant spike in the adoption of new technologies within the work environment. Organisations, whether they were ready or not, have been thrust into a digital transformation process. As the Future of Work comes to fruition, we are starting to see a paradigm shift in the way businesses operate, sell, market products or services, and engage with potential clients. To accommodate this change, bizAR Reality, an award-winning pioneer of immersive technologies, has created a highly immersive virtual showroom and conferencing platform that is compatible with computers and Oculus Quest VR headsets. This easy to use platform allows companies to develop an interactive 3D environment that acts as a tool to facilitate sales and collaboration in the digital space. Videos, PDF’s and PowerPoints combined with interactive 3D models, and immersive virtual reality walkthroughs set the sales foundation of your virtual showroom. Meeting rooms and conference centres facilitate networking and engagement, whereas analytics allows you to gain a better understanding of consumer’s interaction within your digital extension. As the world moves towards a digital future, it has become imperative for companies to continuously innovate the ways in which they grow and maintain market share. At the heart of bizAR Reality’s digital ecosystem are two primary components: people and technology. This fundamental balance facilitates the ability to seamlessly create a digital extension of your organisation. For more information about our platform, feel free to visit our website https://www.bizarreality.co.za/. bizAR Reality is an award-winning augmented and virtual reality software development company. Over the past five years, our dynamic team has successfully designed, developed, and deployed numerous value-driven solutions for some of the world’s largest companies operating in a diverse range of industries. As a pioneer of immersive technology, our knowledge, and experience in augmented and virtual reality solutions make us the ideal partner for any organisation looking to integrate immersive solutions into their digital transformation process. Our solutions range from dynamic multi-user virtual reality training simulations to simple virtual reality factory tours. For more information about our products or our custom project development process, please contact us: hello@bizarreality.co.za