 The Mpumalanga SAPS are looking for a 41-year-old suspect in connection with the murder of a high school principal. They have launched a manhunt for Khulekhani Nkosi from Vryheid in KwaZulu-Natal regarding the alleged gruesome and senseless murder of Johannes Makgoba, a principal at Mkhuhlu High School. According to the report, the victim was reported missing on February 18, 2018. Two days later, a herdsman spotted what looked like badly charred human remains near Hazyview. He immediately alerted the police in the area, who in turn informed Culcutta SAPS as they knew they had an unresolved murder case. The victim’s family was informed about the discovery and DNA tests were conducted to confirm the identity of the deceased. They came back positive, confirming that it was indeed Makgoba’s body. The investigation heightened and police obtained information that the suspect, Nkosi, was spotted driving the victim’s vehicle along with another suspect, Evans Malele. Upon arriving to at Nkosi’s house which he shared with Makgoba, police discovered that he allegedly fled to Limpopo. ALSO READ : Orphans in Hazyview benefit from the Mission Nutrition project The search continuedand investigators obtained information that the suspects were in KwaZulu-Natal. When police arrived, they enquired about Nkosi’s whereabouts and were told that he was seen driving around in an unknown vehicle which he claimed was his. They later spotted and followed it, and upon noticing that he was being followed, the suspect stopped the vehicle and fled on foot. The hunt for Nkosi and Malele continued and they were traced to Gauteng, and were allegedly preparing to return to Mpumalanga. Police in Gauteng were alerted. They spotted the two hitchhiking around Springs. Nkosi managed to escape, but Malele was swiftly arrested on July 27, 2019. Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, provincial commissioner of the SAPS, urged the community to assist with information that might lead to Nkosi’s immediate arrest. “We will relentlessly hunt Nkosi until we find him and ensure that he is brought to book. The community should also help us and I encourage anyone who might have information regarding this suspects to help us,” he said. Anyone who might have information that could lead to the arrest of the suspect, is urged to contact Sgt Shane Chuma on 082-936-0179. Members of the public can also call the Crime Stop number on 08600-10111 or by giving a tip-off on the MySAPS app, which can be downloaded on any smartphone. Information can be submitted anonymously.