 In a striking display of solidarity with South Africans on the front lines during the lockdown, Mel and Peet Viljoen, Founder and CEO of Tammy Taylor Nails South Africa respectively, have donated thousands of masks, gloves and hand sanitizer to essential service workers throughout Gauteng. Moroka police station in Soweto was the first to receive these masks almost 8 weeks ago, and Brigadier Shiburi, Station Commander at Moroka, has said that the station has not experienced a single positive case of the Coronavirus during the lockdown, thanks to the protective gear his police officers are wearing. Garsfontein police station in Pretoria, close to Tammy Taylor Nails South Africa’s head office, was another grateful recipient of SAPS-branded face masks donated by the company. Tammy Taylor Nails South Africa has also recently donated over 50 masks to the Office of the Presidency, including to President Ramaphosa himself, and continues to support other essential service workers through continuous donations to public service workers, healthcare workers, retail workers in various supermarket chains across the province, security guards, petrol attendants and hospital staff. Tammy Taylor Nails has also donated masks and hand sanitizer to old age homes, children’s homes and other needy individuals such as animal welfare workers and recipients of SASSA grants. As distributors and franchisors in the beauty industry, Peet and Mel understand the importance of maintaining good hygiene, something that is already practiced in Tammy Taylor salons nationwide. “Practicing good hygiene is one of the critical factors in fighting COVID 19,” says Mel. “We commissioned the manufacture of these fabric masks in order to help prevent the spread of the disease.” Visit Tammy Taylor’s online shop for their latest specials The fabric masks are both reversible and washable, and can be disinfected, making them reusable. They also have adjustable straps for improved comfort. The outer layer features moisture-wicking fabric that does not trap moisture and offers exceptional breathability. Tammy Taylor masks are also water-resistant and tear-resistant, with 500-thread cotton twill on the inner layer, making them comfortable as well as durable. Fabric masks are recommended by the CDC in certain public settings to combat the coronavirus pandemic, especially where social distancing measures are difficult to maintain. Masks are also now required by the South African National Department of Health to be worn when in public at all times, but many people find themselves unable to afford the purchase of a face mask. It is those less fortunate, and those who are selflessly putting the interests of the rest of South Africa above their own, that Tammy Taylor decided to assist with as many free masks as possible. In addition to masks, Tammy Taylor Nails has also distributed gloves and 70% alcohol hand sanitizer, which is locally manufactured in South Africa. “Our essential service workers are doing a fantastic job serving and protecting us during this challenging time in our country’s history,” says Mel. “Providing them with additional precautionary measures was the least we could do to say thank you for their service, and that we appreciate their commitment and dedication to our country. They are the true heroes – they leave their families every day to go out and serve and protect us, not knowing what they will face out there, and that takes courage.” Peet and Mel will continue to distribute masks and sanitizer throughout the lockdown to those in need, in order to assist government in flattening the curve, broadening their reach every day. Their challenge to other businesses who are in a position to help those less fortunate, is to do so by any means possible – every contribution, no matter how small, makes a positive difference in the lives of others. View Tammy Taylor Franchise Opportunities 