According to the Provincial Department of Health, a 45-year-old female in the City of Mbombela was attended to in Barberton Hospital on May 26. She was diagnosed with upper respiratory tract illness and was admitted the same day. The patient, who was on chronic medication for other underlying medical conditions, was admitted in the isolation ward where she was closely monitored. Unfortunately, due to the nature of her underlying conditions she passed away on May 30 while awaiting results for the Covid-19 coronavirus. “The department was constantly in contact with the patient’s family. When someone is listed as a person under investigation, contacts are listed immediately so that when the results are received and are positive for Covid-19, the tracing is initiated for all contacts and daily monitoring is done. “Our healthcare workers have been trained on how to identify and manage all suspected and confirmed cases as per guidelines. They are encouraged to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) at all times so that they are protected against infections that might originate from hospitals. “The department will ensure that the family follows all the burial protocols aligned with Covid-19 regulations,” said provincial health MEC, Sasekani Manzini. She continued, “People must always wear masks and wash their hands with soap for more than 20 seconds. If they suspect that they might be infected, they must visit their local health facilities.” As of June 6, the province has recorded 171 positive cases of Covid-19. These include 81 females and 90 males. There have been 94 recoveries and are currently 77 active cases. Mpumalanga has so far screened a total of 3 538 866 people, with 2 220 886 tests conducted in communities, 351 944 in hospitals, 619 135 in primary healthcare facilities, and 346 901 other screenings that have been conducted at roadblocks, shopping malls, old-age centres and in correctional facilities. The National Department of Health has been notified of the death. To strengthen the fight against the spread of the virus, the MEC received a donation of PPE from Anglo American Greenside Mine. The equipment was handed over by the mine’s CEO, July Ndlovu. Manzini said the donation will be utilised by the frontline health workers in the fight against the pandemic.