 SANParks today announced that accommodation in the majority of its parks will be open as of August 14 and guided overland safari vehicles (OSVs) will be permitted as soon as the regulations pertaining to their operations are gazetted. In addition, other parks are scheduled to open their accommodation as follows:
• Addo, Camdeboo and Karoo national parks – August 17
• Mountain Zebra National Park – August 20. ALSO READ: Double victory for SANParks at Rhino Conservation Awards This comes after the announcement made by minister of tourism, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, on the response measures and directions for alert level 3 lockdown as they pertain to the tourism industry. As per the minister’s announcement, overnight accommodation is only permissible for residents of the various provinces in which the respective national parks are located. Interprovincial visitors will be prohibited entry to the parks. SANParks’ CEO, Fundisile Mketeni, said, “We are in the process of ensuring that the opening of our national parks for accommodation is done under the strictest health protocols to safeguard both our staff and guests. “It will not run at full capacity as we will employ a phased in approach to reopening. Therefore our loyal guests can expect limited availability of accommodation in some parks at these beginning stages, with a gradual increase in the next few weeks.” Mketeni added that SANParks has implemented additional visitor management procedures in line with regulations and to further mitigate the risk of the spread of coronavirus. ALSO READ: World Ranger Day – a time to commemorate the fallen Overnight guests will be required to provide proof of residence (municipal account or a similar legally accepted form of verification of primary residence) at the time of booking accommodation and again when checking in. “No more than two people will be allowed per unit, except for parents and children.” Tour operators will be allowed to conduct guided tours in OSVs once regulations pertaining to their operations are gazetted, however, all operators need to be registered with SANParks before they are permitted to enter the parks. Self-drive guests are still restricted to a 70 % vehicle capacity as per the Department of Transport’s regulations and the quota system still applies for day visitors. The opening of visitor activities and tourist attractions in the parks will be in keeping with restrictions and aligned with the opening dates as they are set out. As more information is gazetted, SANParks will amend the protocols and inform guests. ALSO READ: Freak accident claims the life of Gavin Wingrave “We look forward to welcoming all our loyal customers, but we appeal to our colleagues, tourists and their friends and families to travel responsibly. “Enjoy the parks and please make sure that you follow all health and safety protocols,” concluded Mketeni. Bookings can be made online, telephonically or via email at reservations@sanparks.org, www.sanparks.org/bookings or on 012-428-9111.