 MBOMBELA – Gavin Wingrave (54) miraculously survived after he was attacked and bludgeoned with an iron bar during a farm attack in 2017. ALSO READ: Gavin Wingrave shares his traumatic prison ordeal He was given a 0,01 per cent chance to live. In what can only be described as a freak accident, Gavin, however, sustained severe injuries after falling four storeys on Monday, while doing maintenance on the Mpumalanga Provincial Government building. He died the next morning, leaving the Lowveld community devastated. According to the regional manager of ER24, Greg Wilcox, they were notified of the incident at around 10:26. “He was found in a critical condition. He was stabilised on the scene and rushed to Rob Ferreira Hospital,” he said. His co-rope technician, Mduduzi Ndawe, who also manages his business, notified his wife, Nadine. “I spoke to Gavin over the phone while he was lying on the ground. I asked him if he could move and if he needed an ambulance,” she said. He answered, “No, I’m f*cked. I can’t move. I need an ambulance.” He was rushed to hospital and ended up in the exact same bed he was in following the farm attack in 2017. Those who knew Gavin well, said he would have made doubly sure that everything was secure. “Ndawe told me that he had no idea what went wrong, and that it couldn’t be avoided,” Nadine added. In addition to severe spinal injuries, his left leg was broken in two places and he had internal bleeding. ALSO READ: Gavin Wingrave awakens from coma after farm attack “I think it was a blessing that he could not feel all the pain. But, just as he was borrowed for the last three years, God gave me a day to say goodbye. When I saw him, I knew. He knew.”
At 08:35 on Tuesday, Nadine was given the devastating news that he had died. “I collapsed, but the doctors gently picked me up from the floor and comforted me. I wanted my husband back, but then an immense calm fell over me,” she said. While we did not have children, he leaves his beloved dog, Bella behind. He also leaves me behind, and I don’t know how I am going to continue without him. “I will miss his childlike joy the most. I have inner peace, but I am scared. One of his friends from the US told me that his light shone brighter than anyone else’s, and that is why he had to go
so soon.” A memorial service will be held on today (Friday). He will be cremated on Tuesday. For more information, contact Nadine on 072-353-1892.