Marius Nel, managing director of KMI Airport, said, “It almost feels sacrilegious to plead for support and business while people out there are actually going to bed hungry, as a result of these challenging and unprecedented times we find ourselves in. “Nonetheless, if we do not support our local businesses, treasures and assets, it could result in more unemployment and consequently, more good people ending up without means to feed their families.”  He mentioned that from the commencement of the government’s declaration of a national state of disaster, KMI Airport has remained open with no scheduled or general aviation flights but did accommodate ministerial, military and emergency flights. “The minister of transport announced on June 30 that KMI Airport (your airport) was allowed to commence scheduled business operations from
July 1. “Airlink started flying between KMI Airport and OR Tambo International from July 6 and in an effort to attract passengers, they have reduced their ticket prices substantially.”  The mixture of interprovincial leisure travel being prohibited, people being cautious and companies turning to virtual meetings, has resulted in the airport not receiving good support thus far. “Despite this, Airlink is currently offering one flight per day between KMI Airport and OR Tambo International. The timing of the flight is set to allow for onward connection to either Cape Town or Port Elizabeth, from OR Tambo.”  In a recent Airlink media statement, it said the flight from Johannesburg to Mbombela will depart at 12:15 arriving in Mbombela at 13:05. The flight from Mbombela will depart at 13:30 arriving in Johannesburg at 14:25 Mondays to Fridays. The service will be operated by a 37-seat Embraer ERJ135 regional jet. Hence Nel’s plea: “Please consider flying to and from Johannesburg, rather than driving? Every single additional passenger utilising the airport and Airlink, encourages them to increase available flights and to ultimately consider the recommencement of flights to Cape Town, Durban, and so on.”    