 Liquor operators in the province are ecstatic following the phased and gradual opening of the Mpumalanga Economic Regulator (MER). Liquor and gambling operators who needed to renew their licences, expressed their relief to Lowvelder Express following MER’s move to reopen its doors. The government parastatal, just like everyone else, had to close shop in March following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement to place the country under lockdown with stringent regulations, as a means to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Read: Tourism industry across the country takes a stand against regulations
“The closure of the MER offices really had us worried as some of us needed to renew our licences to comply with the regulations as mandated by law. It is good that they are back and we will be able to renew our licences so that when the alcohol ban is lifted, we are ready to operate and comply with the directives,” said tavern owner, Mncedisi Nkosi of KaNyamazane.
“I am a new applicant and I planned to have everything processed so I could
legally operate my bottle store, which I intend to officially open in December for
the festive season. “I was worried the offices would be closed for a long period of time, but I am happy that they are back now and helping us,” said businessman, Muzi Ngobeni of Manyeveni Trust. Also read: Third Covid-19 case at Nelspruit Police Station Confirming its reopening was the MER’s head of communications and marketing, Cedrick Chiloane, who said while it has been offering certain services remotely during lockdown, it is now gradually returning.
“MER has adopted a phased approach for the reopening of its offices, considering health and safety measures to ensure compliance with the Disaster Management Act. At this stage, about one-third of the workforce had returned and therefore, the office will not be fully operational yet, but all services will continue to be rendered. “In view of the new regulations, as well as to minimise the threat of Covid-19 and to ensure the safety of our staff and clients, we have put in place a number of measures until further notice,” said Chiloane.
He further encouraged clients to avoid face-to-face interaction at the offices as much as possible and rather use telephone or email communication.
“Our MEROnline portal will be kept up to date for enquiries or searches on the status of all licences in Mpumalanga. The free-of-charge SMS licence verification service will also remain available.
“Where it is unavoidable to visit MER, all clients are requested to wear face masks and to observe social distancing protocols. We would like to encourage people to, where possible, come alone when visiting the offices,” he appealed.