 South Africa’s Covid-19 lockdown rules change rapidly and regularly. As a result, you may be unsure about what is and what isn’t allowed at any given time. Here Caxton Local Media sets out the latest regulation amendments which affect, among others, the sporting and hospitality communities. The most recent amendments to level 3 lockdown regulations were gazetted on July 31, and South Africans are now awaiting more details. The amendments are constantly evolving and we will keep you updated as and when new information becomes available. Also read: Do ‘unconstitutional’ lockdown regulations still apply?    Regulation 41 now states: “(1) During the national state of disaster, all borders of the Republic must be closed, except for ports of entry designated by the Cabinet member responsible for home affairs, for- (a) the transportation of fuel, cargo and goods; (b) humanitarian operations, repatriations, evacuations, medical emergencies, movement of staff of diplomatic and international organisations and other exceptions as may be determined by the relevant Cabinet member by directions; or (c) foreign sea crew for the purposes of exchange of sea crew in the Republic.” When lockdown began in March, permitted goods and services were severely curtailed and many people worked from home. Most of us are however now back at work, but be aware that there are still some sectors which may not resume business.  Also read: Interprovincial travel regulations amended as SA enters July while still under lockdown * Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).