 The Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) has announced that accommodation at its various nature reserves is open for leisure travellers from August 7. Tour operators with guided tours in open safari vehicles (OSVs) are also permitted to operate as the regulations pertaining to their operations have been gazetted. This follows the announcement made by the minister of tourism, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, on the easing of regulations for alert level 3 lockdown as it relates to the tourism industry. “All accommodation facilities that will open include the concessions at the Manyeleti (all excluding the main camp) and Songimvelo nature reserves. The various nature reserves will continue to provide self-drives, hiking, fishing and hunting activities. “At the moment, the main camps of nature reserves that are used as quarantine sites (Manyeleti and Andover) are not available for accommodation bookings, but are open for self-drives and OSVs. “No picnic or swimming sites will be open except for the use of the ablution facilities. We encourage all game drives to be booked and prepaid for through our central reservations office,” said Johannes Nobunga, CEO of the MTPA. ALSO READ: Tour guide and accommodation regulations explained The MTPA reminded visitors that as per the announcement made by Kubayi-Ngubane, overnight accommodation will only be allowed for intraprovincial travel – that is only the residents of the province will be allowed to make bookings and access the nature reserves. Overnight guests as well as day visitors will be required to provide proof of residence when making a booking as well as during check-in. No more than two people will be allowed per accommodation facility, except for parents and children. “We, the MTPA management and the concessionaires at our reserves, have been working tirelessly to ensure that we prepare thoroughly for the expected arrivals of guests to these nature reserves. “It is our responsibility to ensure that as we open our nature reserves for overnight stays, self-drives, hiking, fishing as well as hunting, we continue to follow strict health protocols to safeguard both our staff and guests,” explained Nobunga. “It is important to note that we are still on lockdown, alert level 3. As such, we are still required to comply fully with the set regulations, which states that group activities are prohibited. ALSO READ: SANParks accommodation to reopen on August 14 “While visiting the nature reserves, guests will be required to wear their face masks at all times, observe social distancing and follow the necessary directives relating to transport capacity. “The regulations set by the Department of Transport in terms of 70% vehicle capacity for self-drives will still apply. We appeal to our visitors to adhere to these guidelines to avoid disappointment upon arrival at the gate,” he added. Because of the uncertainty regarding the number of people allowed to stay at one accommodation facility versus the number of people allowed in a vehicle, Kholofelo Nkambule, spokesperson for the MTPA, advised that should people encounter problems or challenges they should contact the facility they are visiting to assist where possible. The MTPA encourages those intending to visit nature reserves to make the necessary bookings prior through the central reservations office at reservations@mtpa.co.za or on 013-759-5432 and verify the gate entry times. “We look forward to welcoming back those nature lovers who have been eager to return and explore the natural wonders that Mpumalanga has to offer. “We appeal to our guests to always be safe and comply with the health and safety protocols that have been put in place. The safety of our guests and staff is important to us,” said Nobunga.