 HAZYVIEW – Police and 11 suspects were engaged in a firefight after a funeral at Marite Sports Grounds near Hazyview on Saturday. According to the SAPS report, the suspects attended a funeral which turned into chaos when some of the mourners started spinning their vehicles and firing their weapons. The police were deployed to respond to the situation and gunfire was exchanged between the police and suspects. The Provincial Commissioner of the South African Police Service in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant General Mondli Zuma. ALSO READ: Waterval Boven Police Station the latest to be hit with Covid-19 Brig Leonard Hlathi, the provincial SAPS spokesperson, said, “Eleven suspects, aged between 25 and 35, have been arrested after an exchange of gunfire between them and police that claimed two lives and wounded three, including two police officers.” Hlathi added that one of the gunmen who died during the shoot-out, had been in possession of an unlicensed firearm. “During the commotion, police managed to arrest 11 suspects and recover live ammunition,” he continued. Brigadier Leonard Hlathi.| ALSO READ: Residential and business burglaries on the rise in Mbombela The SAPS opened cases of attempted murder, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition, and malicious damage to property after a police vehicle had been damaged during the fracas. Hlathi said the two officers who had sustained wounds were taken to hospital for treatment. An injured suspect is under police guard at the hospital where he is also receiving treatment. The Mpumalanga provincial police commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, denounced the suspects’ behaviour and urged the community to abide by the lockdown regulations.

ALSO READ: Alleged Sassa fraudsters appear in court Zuma also spoke against the organising of soccer tournaments and the attendance of more than 50 people at funerals. “Zuma has, however, welcomed the arrests and wished the wounded police officers a speedy recovery,” said Hlathi. The suspects have been remanded in custody and will appear in the Calcutta Periodical Court today. “This country is governed by law and we cannot allow a state of lawlessness to prevail or go unpunished,” concluded Zuma.