 Many South African employees face either the loss of 13 annual leave days or forfeiting a large portion of their income between tomorrow night and midnight on April 16. This is one consequence of the national 21-day lockdown announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa on March 22. By means of the lockdown, government hopes to halt the spread of Covid-19. From midnight tomorrow (March 26), South African residents will be confined to their homes. Only necessary trips may be undertaken such as for medical and food purchasing purposes. Various employees have been expressing their dissatisfaction after learning that they may have to take annual or unpaid leave during this time. Image: Oladimeji via pexels.com. Essential services will continue while police and the military see to it that South Africans adhere to the strict regulations imposed. Questions asked by many a non-essential worker during this time include: “May my employer force me to use my annual leave for lockdown purposes?” and “Isn’t it illegal for my employer not to pay me during this time?” Caxton Local Media spoke to Ari Soldatos, a labour law expert and director at Fluxmans Inc. He explained that employers may not force employees to take annual leave for purposes of adhering to the lockdown regulations. However, employers may give employees the choice between: 1) Applying annual leave for this period, or 2) Taking unpaid leave until the lockdown comes to an end. Image: Christina Morillo via pexels.com. Soldatos explained that this is based on basic contract law, in terms of which impossibility is an excuse for non-performance of a party’s contractual duties under a contract. “The lockdown amounts to a change in circumstances that employers cannot control. It makes their performance of employee agreements literally impossible,” he said. If employers cannot conduct business, it follows that they cannot earn the income needed to pay their employees. This, according to Soldatos, explains the second of two alternatives that many business owners have resorted to. Click here to read: Police and military to ensure that lockdown regulations are adhered to. Click here to read: Covid-19 – The next 21 days in South Africa 