 A cash-in-transit heist took place on the corner of Enos Mabuza Drive and Figtree Street on Tuesday at approximately 07:20. Brig Vish Naidoo, spokesperson for the national police commissioner, said two guards transporting money were attacked by a group of more than 10 armed men. “The suspects shot at the security vehicle with heavy-calibre firearms, possibly AK-47 rifles, and forced it to a halt. The suspects gained access to the cash using explosives. An undisclosed amount of money was taken,” said Naidoo. “One of the security guards was disarmed of his firearm. The suspects fled in at least three vehicles, possibly white BMWs. One security guard suffered a wound to his head,” Naidoo said. He said no arrests have yet been made. ALSO READ: SanParks to close all facilities tomorrow following coronavirus lockdown A resident living nearby said he heard the sound of an impact and ran outside. “I saw how someone was shooting at the robbers and how the robbers shot back at them. They also shot in my direction. I saw them putting the explosives on the vehicle and then the explosion went off,” said the witness. He said the robbers ran away from the scene and came back to take the money bags and then fled in the BMWs. “They were well equipped with balaclavas and bulletproof vests,” said the witness. The cash-in-transit vehicle and another vehicle was on fire. It is believed the other vehicle was stolen by the robbers and used to ram the cash van. As the emergency personnel arrived at the scene, other members of the SAPS arrived and alerted other police members on the scene that the armed robbers were in Kelkiewyn Street. ALSO READ: Police search for Hawks officer’s killer Simon du Plooy drove past as the robbery happened. “Everything happened so fast. I thought that it was an accident but then I felt an impact, then saw flames. Shots were fired and I realised that it is a cash-in transit-robbery. There were almost more accidents as people turned around to get away,” said Du Plooy. “I was about 70 metres away and they shot at me. If they aimed higher I would have been dead,” he said. The shot hit the radiator and came to a standstill as Du Plooy got to safety. Cicke Lister, mother of two, also drove into the heist scene and was shot at. She managed to stay down and reverse her vehicle until she could turn. “It was a very traumatic experience,” said Lister.