Lowveld Media will be completely online during the 21-day lockdown. We have plans to entertain you and your families, and keep you updated on all things happening around you. As an essential service, we will bring you a Lowvelder once a week on Thursdays, and we will bring you entertainment online all the time. We would love for you to interact with us during this period. We support our local community We are here to ensure you that you will be well informed with extensive coverage from our journalists. With us by your side, you will never be uncertain of anything, you will never be uninformed and you will never be without a platform to communicate with your customers. Due to the Nation-Wide Lockdown starting on midnight 26 March, Lowveld Media will only publish 1 newspaper per week – Lowvelder which will come out on Thursdays. For this 3-week period, we have brought in a very special package deal:
Full Page = R39 600 (Excl.) for all 3 weeks (3 full pages)
Half Page = R20 400 (Excl.) for all 3 weeks (3 adverts)
Quarter Page (10×8 / 20×4) = R10 800 (Excl.) for all (3 adverts)
10×4 = R6 000 (Excl. VAT) (Excl.) for all 3 weeks (3 adverts)
10×2 = R3 600 (Excl. VAT) (Excl.) for all 3 weeks (3 adverts) Deadlines to advertise in this paper will be on Mondays @ 14:00. An estimated 8000 Copies of the Lowvelder will be printed and distributed weekly to key collection points including SPAR, other grocery stores, garages, some complexes and old age homes. Why you should go online is that we can give you stats so that you can measure the success of your advert. We also have the traffic on our website with 260 510 page views this last week on Lowvelder.co.za Online Package Deal 1 10 000 impressions – 10 000 on Lowvelder.co.za (impressions are every time your advert pop up) – R1 600 (Excl.) Online Package Deal 2 5×2 (5cm high x 6.4cm wide) advert in Mpumalanga News or Lowvelder 10 000 impressions on Lowvelder.co.za or Mpumalanganews.co.za or shared on both (impressions are every time your advert pop up on one of the websites mentioned). You can decide if you would like the 10 000 impressions in one week or spread it over a month.  The one thing unique about our online is that we can give you stats so that you can measure the success of your advert. Online in article adverts on Lowvelder.co.za or Mpumalanganews.co.za this advert appears in the middle of our articles and as the reader scroll up to read further these adverts stay in the middle. These adverts can click through to your website, your online order or your Facebook page. The Facebook advert that I will post on 30 Facebook groups. The design of all these adverts is included in the price. All this for only R2 580.90 (Excl.) Online Package Deal 3 5×2 (5cm high x 6.4cm wide) advert in Mpumalanga News and Lowvelder 20 000 impressions – 10 000 on Lowvelder.co.za and 10 000 on Mpumalanganews.co.za (impressions are every time your advert pops up on one of the websites mentioned). You can decide if you would like the 10 000 impressions in one week or spread it over a month.  The one thing unique about our online is that we can give you stats so that you can measure the success of your advert. Online in article adverts on Lowvelder.co.za and Mpumalanganews.co.za this advert appears in the middle of our articles and as the reader scroll up to read further these adverts stay in the middle. These adverts can click through to your website, your online order or your Facebook page. The Facebook advert that I will post on 30 Facebook groups. The design of all these adverts is included in the price. All this for only R4 961.80 (Excl.) Contact our sales consultants to help you keep your business and products in the market. You will have a great kick-off when you are back at work and running your business. We make use of effective measures and Google analytics to measure traffic online, which allows us to determine how many page views and unique users there are in a specific period of time, which articles were the most popular, whether users visited the site from a desktop or mobile device, their demographics and when and where they entered or exited the site. Lowveld Media has a special digital team managing its websites, social media platforms, and trafficking.  We offer various online products for advertisers, including display ads for desktop and mobile, classifieds, custom features and supplements, digital flip-through books, log-ins for motor dealerships to list their vehicles, listings in our tourism and accommodation directory, and the options of advertorials and sponsored content. We support our local community You will find a variety of interesting lifestyle and entertainment news, including some local blogs on our news sites. Local media will play an essential role in contributing to the success of this lockdown programme and we urge you to please continue supporting our media. Lowveld Media urges you to stay updated with our website, interact with us on our social media channels, and stay well informed with our newspaper. We are here to support our community.