 South Africa’s online property marketplace, Private Property, has launched its new brand repositioning today, an integrated multichannel strategy to take the 21-year-old company, customers and property investors into its next phase of growth. At midnight leading into 17 March, the Private Property website switches over from the old red white and blue, to the new fresh, bold brand logo that symbolises its new strategic direction. The refreshed market approach comprises an expanded business offering, customer engagement and radical change to its corporate identity. “When Private Property came onto the real estate industry scene 21 years ago, we were innovative and passionate about providing class-leading technology and revolutionising real estate marketing,” says Amasi Mwela, CEO at Private Property. “Now, with the world changing at a rapid pace, we are reinventing ourselves, reaffirming our enduring commitment to innovative property solutions, but with a more holistic approach.” “Over the past 12 months, we have developed a strategy that will be more relevant to a wider audience,” Mwela says. “As part of our business strategy, we are expanding beyond digital, towards a multichannel approach that includes a variety of physical, print, digital and face-to-face touch points to bring us closer to the consumers. “We realised the importance of engaging with our customers face-to-face and made key acquisitions in the past year, such as the flagship property expo, The Property Show, where we offer consumers information and effective tools across the value chain. We also ran the first Real Estate Industry Summit, which exposes professionals to the best local and international industry minds and thought leaders in an interactive environment,” he says. This has been bolstered by the 2019 acquisition of the Property Power Magazine, South Africa’s premier property how-to guide, which has been renamed The Property Guide. Through the publication, Private Property aims to further inform South Africans about the value of knowing what their rights and obligations are when considering renting, buying, building or investing in property. “Strong commercial partnerships are at the heart of our strategy,” Mwela adds. “We recently partnered with South Africa’s largest retail bank Absa, a partnership that will position the two major players collaborating to create maximum value for the South African property industry.” PrivateProperty.co.za