 MBOMBELA – In a bid to prevent the spread of Covid-19, South Africans have taken to self-isolating and stocking up on groceries, sanitisers and cleaning materials. The downside to this is the panic-buying that ensued subsequent to government’s announcement that a number of measures would be introduced. These include a restriction on non-essential domestic travel on all transport modes and the prohibition of gatherings that number more than 100 people. In light of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement last week, South Africans have taken to stockpiling certain items, especially hand sanitisers, face masks and disinfectants. Felicia Lemmer. ALSO READ: Covid-19 patients who infect others may face murder charges The South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) spoke out against panic-buying and discouraged citizens from buying more than is necessary. “In recent weeks, several pharmacies across the country have been reported to have experienced stock shortages due to panic-fueled bulk buying of effervescent immune boosters, hand sanitisers and other medicinal and essential items, as well as attempts to bulk purchase prescription medication, said Amos Masango, CEO of the SAPC. “Unfortunately, such unnecessary bulk purchases deplete stock and deny others access to essential goods. We call on patients, pharmacists and members of the public to work together with all sectors of society to curb the spread of Covid-19 by ensuring the continuous availability of prevention essentials for everyone,” Masango said. De Klerk Fourie. ALSO READ: All hands on deck as Sasol takes on the spread of Covid-19 He added that making bulk purchases would lead to an acceleration in the spread of Covid-19, because panic-buying denies others access to the same supplies. Lowvelders have made changes to their shopping habits since the president’s announcement and took to social-media platforms to explain how the coronavirus has impacted their routines. Facebook user, Felicia Lemmer, said, “A person who doesn’t change his/her habits in this time, has no bloody clue of what ‘containment’ means. Look at the spike where containment was not practiced in time. Think of what it can do to a country like ours, where a large part of the population are at serious risk. I am surprised at people who think they can carry on as normal. It is not normal now! Think of others and not only your own comfort.” Retailers have already started limiting the number of items customers can buy. ALSO READ: Covid-19 (coronavirus): Six months in jail for anyone who publishes fake news Another user, Nicola Greeff, weighed in on the debate and said more thought needs to be given to retail workers who are not being taken into consideration. “People state that their shopping habits have not changed, without a single thought for the retail workers. We would love to distance ourselves, but people insist on still shopping, eating out and going to the movies as if this a fun holiday and not a global pandemic,” she said. Customers are advised to exercise consideration when buying necessities. ALSO READ: Mbombela businesses affected by new Covid-19 regulations De Klerk Fourie added that there were no major changes to his shopping habits, but that there were no sales at major retailers. “So not only is the public panic-buying, the retailers are keeping all they have for themselves,” he added. On the whole, Lowvelders agree that taking the necessary precautions such as regular sanitising and practising good hygiene, as recommended by the presidency, will stand South Africa in good stead and help to prevent the further transmission of Covid-19.