 Madame et Monsieur is a slimming, health and beauty clinic. The topic for this year’s event was “Be your own kind of BeYouTiful”. Esti Strydom, owner/president of Madame et Monsieur South Africa, told Lowvelder, “I decided on the topic for many reasons. So many women are in abusive relationships, no matter whether it is physical, emotional, mental or financial. We as women can so easily think we are not beautiful enough, or because the men in our lives make us feel that way. ALSO READ: Blood campaigns to be held in several Lowveld towns to save lives “However, we as women must realise our worth and that all of us are ‘BeYouTiful’, not in the exact same way, but we are unique and therefore we must be ‘our own kind of BeYouTiful’.” The event focused on grooming guests to stand out and improve themselves. Different guest speakers spoke in this regard, emphasising the need for a woman to be their best.  Ester Mohlonga spoke about women’s courage and perseverance. Thelma du Preez, owner of Madame et Monsieur in Thabazimbi, talked about menopause. Rentia de Klerk focused on the main topic of beauty. Ilze Wolhuter, owner of Madame et Monsieur in Middelburg, discussed diode-permanent laser hair removal. Dudu Seikaneng, owner of Sassenkani Boutique, treated guests to a fashion show. Izette Maschke and Erica Wessels, of Macno Cosmetics, discussed lipogon treatments and the launching of their new skincare products.  Strydom commented, “I never, for one moment, thought that the impact of this event will be so huge. No-one went home empty-handed, either with a gift voucher or thoughts of the day. I would like to take the opportunity to thank each and every person that attended the event, whether in the capacity as a guest speaker or guest, travelling from near or far. You all contributed to make the event a huge success.” Gift vouchers were sponsored by Estie of Estie’s Nails, and Madame et Monsieur Mbombela. ALSO READ: Brides-to-be in Mbombela have nothing to worry about in preparation of their special day A winner of Lowvelder’s #WinningWednesday also attended the event. It is planned that this will be an annual event.