 MBOMBELA – The leader of the protests in Barberton, Mandla Mamba, appeared in the Nelspruit Regional Court 3 last Friday. His appearance in court followed his arrest by members of the Tactical Response Team at Sonpark on February 28. A packed courtroom, comprised of his supporters who travelled from Barberton, listened as the bail application hearing continued and the long list of charges he faces was read out. Njabulo Mkhonto. ALSO READ: WATCH: Barberton protesters ready themselves for COGTA MEC, Mandla Msibi’s address In this particular bail application, Mamba sought bail on a charge of arson and discharging a firearm in public. He denied being at the scene and produced a document indicating that he had booked into the Nelspruit SUN1 Hotel on the night in question. The incident occurred last August and Mamba questioned why a warrant of arrest had only been issued in February for the alleged offence. COGTA MEC, Mandla Msibi, at a meeting with protesters. ALSO READ: Barberton protest marred by violent confrontations between opposing factions As proceedings continued, Njabulo Mkhonto, who, along with Mamba, spearheaded the month-long strike, was informed by the presiding officer, magistrate Du Preez, that his bail application would not be heard on the day, but postponed to the following Monday. Ndlovu opposed bail and said it would not be in the interest of justice for Mamba to be released, as he had not adhered to the bail conditions on previous charges of attempted murder and murder. One of the main conditions were that Mamba report to the investigating officer at the Barberton Magistrate’s Court. Mandla Mamba. ALSO READ: Emjindini protesters put Barberton’s woes on the city of Mbombela’s doorstep He replied that he had filed an application to amend this condition, as his work often required long absences from home and returning to Barberton was causing a strain on his finances. Ndlovu called Mamba’s law credentials into question and requested that he provide certified copies of the same, along with the amended bail conditions. As Mamba did not have these in his possession, the bail application was postponed to District Court C in Mbombela on Monday. Mandla Mamba and Njabulo Mkhonto were remanded in custody as the case was postponed to Wednesday to allow the investigating officer, Sgt Uzile Khoza, to provide evidence in the bail hearing.