 Almeri du Toit and Eulender Nanni began their journey as semi-finalists on February 28 when they were invited, along with other married women from all over South Africa, for a national live casting at the Menlyn Park Shopping Centre. After this, they attended an empowerment workshop held at Emperors Palace to help them prepare for the journey ahead. Tammy Taylor Mrs South Africa is a journey that has gained the reputation of a women-empowerment programme and prides itself on producing the very best in real, relatable and modern South African women. Du Toit is a mother, wife and transformation team leader for a well-known national company. She is extremely passionate about her work and strives to change lives by using transformation legislation to the benefit of companies, individuals and non-profit organisations. She is strong-willed and always challenges the status quo to either gain a better understanding, or to change perception. ALSO READ: SANParks gives further details on lion shooting “I am honoured to be part of such a dynamic group of women. I am excited about the journey ahead, not only to be empowered, but to empower. I hope to inspire women not only in Mpumalanga, but across South Africa, throughout this journey,” said Du Toit. Nanni is a free-spirited, confident and independent woman. It is a combination of her personality, passion for life, intelligence, sense of humour and inner light that defines her essence as a woman. She is lively, bold and full of spirit, chic, stylish and possesses a sensual persona. “Being selected as a Mrs South Africa semi-finalist still feels unreal. I am still getting used to this and I am so excited to journey onwards. A quote I live by is: ‘You are not obligated to win. You are obligated to keep trying, to the best you can do everyday’,” Nanni explained. Only 25 lucky women will be selected to continue the journey as finalists for Tammy Taylor Mrs South Africa. They will be announced at the Annual Charity Ball on June 26 at Centre Court, Emperors Palace. All proceeds of this event will go to the pageant’s official NPO, Women4Women South Africa. ALSO READ: SANParks remain open amid Covid-19 pandemic