 Dr André Hattingh and the team are withstanding all that comes their way. They were at Port Nolloth right after crossing the Karoo on motorbikes in 36 degrees Celsius. Hattingh commented that, “The Karoo is a big and hot place, especially if you cross it by motorbike. But for a child’s health, we will carry our bikes across the Karoo if it can help.” On their journey, the team stopped in Keimoes near Upington to deliver presents to an orphanage. “Woolworths in Mbombela had asked us to hand-deliver presents to the children at the orphanage. The kids loved the gifts and had a great deal of fun being taken for a ride around a vineyard on motorbike.” Those who rode on the bikes were given official badges. The team received a surprise reception from Woolworths’ management and staff in Upington. ALSO READ: The Eye of Nelspruit to become a new tourism attraction “No effort was spared to make us feel welcome and I even had special fruit and goodies, as I am gluten-intolerant. Woolworths, this we will never forget. Thank you.” said Hattingh. The team continued their journey to Port Nolloth, Alexander Bay, Lamberts Bay (where they were joined by 40 other bikers), and Cape Town. Hattingh and team are currently in Natal. They will sleep at St Lucia tonight, and at Piet Retief tomorrow evening. Hattingh commented, “We visited Nazereth House in Cape Town this morning. For the folks that are not familiar with Nazereth House, it is a palliative care centre taking care of sick and disabled children, and what a beautiful property it is! The team delivered diapers, ice cream, bananas, yoghurt and special teddy bears that were handmade by the staff of the Protea Hotel in Hazyview, to the house. ALSO READ: Pelo ya Mosadi project gives girls a better quality of life in Mpumalanga Hattingh commented, “A young man named Daniel and his friends from Melkbos collected a large quantity of soft toys for us to also hand out to the children at Nazereth House. Daniel and friends, you are true Pediatric Care Africa heroes, thank you very much!” There are two days remaining of the PCA team’s journey. They will arrive back at White River Crossing at 14:00 on Thursday afternoon.