 Orthopaedic surgeon, Dr Alex Kuhn, has just returned from an overseas trip where he contracted the virus.
He was tested on Saturday and received the results over the weekend. His practice confirmed that they were instructed by the Department of Health to alert all patients and members of the public who were in close contact with him since his return and they were placed under self-quarantine for two weeks. This precautionary measure was only applicable to the primary contact person. It was also advised that they do not interact with family members closer than one metre from the person. ALSO READ: Parts of Busamed Lowveld Private Hospital close due to corona scare If flu-like symptoms present to any of these people within two weeks, it was advised that they contact their doctors telephonically or call the hotline on 0800029-999. Anyone with symptoms is advised to not visit their doctor’s consulting rooms in order to prevent the spread of the virus. The Department of Heath’s epidemiologist received a complete list of other contacts Dr Kuhn could have encountered while running errands etc.  The news of his diagnosis spread like wildfire on social media, but Dr Kuhn could not give personal comment as the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) has protocol in place for medical professionals who contract the disease and only they can communicate with the media. As a result of the diagnosis, Busamed Lowveld Private Hospital closed its doors for the public yesterday to implement precautionary measures and adhere to the prescribed protocol. None of the medical personnel placed under quarantine has presented any flu-like symptoms and has not been tested. The hospital is working closely with the NICD and Department of Health to ensure that all patient and visitor safety measures are in place. They could not provide any further information and said they would inform the public as soon as possible of their operational status. ALSO READ: Fake WhatsApp doing the rounds concerning coronavirus testing station at Sonpark