 This was announced by Barbara Creecy, minister of environment, forestry and fisheries, during the national command council on SA’s Covid-19 lockdown address on Tuesday. She added that international visitors who are in the parks and were considered to be from high-risk countries, have been placed in isolation. The way forward is still being discussed with the Department of Health. However, the ranger and wildlife management services will continue. This is to ensure that wildlife is protected and the community is protected from the wildlife. ALSO READ: SANBS reassures Mpumalanga residents that it is still safe to donate blood “All our provincial nature reserves, including those on the popular Panorama Route such as Blyde River Canyon, Bourke’s Luck Potholes, God’s Window, Three Rondavels and the Pinnacle, will be closed to the public effective from 16:00 on Wednesday,” said Johannes Nobunga, chief executive officer of Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency. “Our essential-services staff such as field rangers and all those in the wildlife management programme will continue to work and ensure the safety of our biological assets.” A press release from SANParks stated: “Following additional advice from key government departments, it is with regret that we have to make a major amendment to decisions made earlier today regarding the closure of our tourism facilities. Guests will not be allowed to enter any national park, whether as day or overnight visitors, from Wednesday until further notice.” ALSO READ: Courts to remain open, partially, during the lockdown The statement explained that guests from high-risk countries who are currently residing in the parks should not leave. “All such guests have been identified and staff on the ground will provide them with support and further information regarding their travel arrangements as well as facilitate contact with their embassies.” The following provincial nature reserves have been identified as quarantine sites by the natioinal Department of Health with the essential number of beds available: • SS Skosana (36 beds)
• Andover (14 beds)
• Manyeleti (285 beds)
• Kromdraai Camp (120 beds) Linda Grimbeek of Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism, advised, “Due to the lockdown, we recommend to those who have already made bookings to postpone them.” ALSO READ: Exhibitors showcase their local crafts before lockdown at Botanical Garden The management of the Lowveld National Botanical Garden could not be reached at the time of going to press.