 Trans African Concessions (TRAC N4) was ordered by the South African Police Services (Saps) this morning to stop four 25-seater buses with foreign nationals at the Machado Toll Plaza outside eNtokozweni in Mpumalanga until members from the Nelspruit and White River Flying Squad arrived to escort them back to Lebombo Border Post.
This was confirmed by Solange Soares, spokesperson of TRAC N4. TRAC N4 manages the N4 toll-route starting from Solomon Mahlangu off-ramp in Tshwane, Gauteng, to the Maputo Port in Mozambique.  Rumours that the group landed at O.R. Tambo International earlier where they were denied entry into the country and that they then boarded a plane to Maputo International Airport where they travelled by bus to South Africa could not be confirmed. The buses were escorted by members of the police and briefly stopped next to the road near Malelane where refreshments were delivered to them. ALSO READ: Universities closed due to coronavirus Editor of Lowvelder newspaper in Mbombela, Tarina Coetzee, followed the convoy and said confusion started here when some of the Japanese nationals brought it to the attention of the police that Japan was not on the list of countries banned from entering South Africa. They demanded to be released.  The convoy arrived at the border at 16:20 where further confusion unfolded. An official at the Lebombo Border Gate confirmed that the group entered the country through that gate at around 09:00 this morning and that they did go through passport control. “They are in the country legally and we do not understand why they were brought back here,” the official said.
A group of Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members who were waiting for the group of foreign nationals at the Lebombo Gate said they received information about the group who entered the country this morning and alerted authorities. At the time it was believed that it may be Chinese tourists.  The group stayed in their buses at the border until authorities could come to a decision whether they had to return to Mozambique or be allowed to visit South Africa. The national broadcaster in Japan, NHK, today announced they had 1 055 cases of domestically transmitted cases of coronavirus, which was up 40 from yesterday. The number passed the 1 000 milestone on Saturday as the nation battles to avoid a health crisis ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. The official national tally does not include the 712 cases of infections from a cruise ship moored near Tokyo last month. This is a developing story and updates will be provided as the fate of the group is clarified by authorities. ALSO READ: SANBS reassures Mpumalanga residents that it is still safe to donate blood