 Annamare Ferreira, a resident of White River who has survived cancer three times, is now struggling with hip pain. “I had breast cancer on the same breast in 1985 and 1993. In 1993 a mastectomy was done. In 2009 I had cervical cancer. That was bad – I thought I was going to die,” she said. During this period she was living in the United States. She moved back to South Africa in 2012 and was healthy then. She told Lowvelder, “In 2015, something went wrong with my right leg. In 2017 I slipped but managed to regain my balance, although I could not stand on my leg.” Ferreira went to see a private doctor, however, not having a medical aid, she was referred to Rob Ferreira Hospital. ALSO READ: SANBS reassures Mpumalanga residents that it is still safe to donate blood She was advised to take six weeks’ bed rest. She returned to the doctor and was told she needed to have hip surgery. She was placed on a theatre list for the operation, because there was no threatre space or bedding available. “In 2018, I developed a knee problem. I visited the hospital and more X-rays were done. I was told a doctor was coming from Pretoria and I would be contacted, which never happened.” Ferreira explained. When she returned to the hospital she was told she had been taken off the list because her case was complicated. She was later added again and asked to return at a scheduled time. However, until now, she still has not received medical assistance. “I went again and was told I need to be made a priority. But, the truth is, I am not the only one affected. I meet the same people over and over again, but we are not getting help.” ALSO READ: AA Travel offers advice to everyone taking a trip during these troubled times Ferreira decided to visit Mediclinic to find out how much hip surgery would cost. She was told R212 000. This will cover anaesthesia (R15 150), surgeon’s fee (R31 813,06), surgical admission and theatre costs (R158 929,88), physiotherapy (R4 420) and orthopaedic services (R1 950). She pleads with the public to assist. “It is essential for me to be able to move around.” When she receives the funds needed she will have the operation performed immediately. To donate, visit, www.backabuddy.co.za/champion/project/annamare-ferreira.