 This organisation, Hadithi ya Africa, recently launched what it named the “midnight train social media campaign”, #StopTheSpread, in which it asks the public to assist in curbing the global pandemic. Thandwefika Tshabalala, founder of Hadithi ya Africa, told Lowvelder, “We understand the government is doing its best to manage the situation. However, this is about the citizens actively helping ourselves to manage the crisis. We are looking for positive influencers who will share correct information and reprimand those sharing wrong information. We want to recognise the heroes who are testing, and promote and applaud those who are self-isolating.” He added, “We want to address the fear and make doing this a norm and a heroic act, so more people can join in. Citizens who participate will be recognised and given a badge.” The requirements to receive a badge are divided into three levels.  At level one, an individual is recognised for being a model citizen by taking control of their immediate surroundings and verifying the information they consume. This requires consuming and only sharing information from legitimate sources. They also should report fake news and conspiracy theories that promote hysteria. They are to sanitise their homes and personal space. At level two, an individual becomes an influential citizen. ALSO READ: Facts about Covid-19 available on WhatsApp These persons help stop the spread by actively encouraging and recognising those that are doing good, such as those that have tested themselves, posted correct information and volunteer and serve on any corona action group, as well as promote a public campaign designed to slow or stop the spread of Covid-19. A citizen who progresses to level three will be a hero citizen. These citizens buy extra resources for those who are in need and cannot afford to buy these themselves. They also initiate a pressure campaign on establishments that are not taking enough precautionary measures to keep their staff and customers safe. Individuals will need to provide proof of activities and tag #StopTheSpread on social media. They then receive their badges. ALSO READ: White River woman is in need of contributions to undergo hip surgery Tshabalala said the “midnighters” are partnering with taxi ranks by providing hand sanitisers. “We are creating awareness by sourcing sanitisers from industries so that we can dispatch to the public too.” He calls upon citizens to become active in coaching the country in slowing the spread of the virus. For more information, visit their social media pages on Facebook: midnightTrain or Twitter: @_midnighters.