 The ceremony took place last Thursday. These recruits will help rehabilitate forestry and plantations that have been poorly managed in the area. The forestry support teams comprised of 32 women and 92 men, who will be deployed in various forestry villages in the Western Cape and parts of the Eastern Cape to ensure compliance with the National Veld and Forest Fire Act and several other laws, including the National Forest Act, while also implementing integrated fire management, such as constructing firebreaks, reducing fuel loads and assisting with fighting fires. This initiative came into existence because of high risks posed by large forestry areas in the Western and Southern Cape that have not yet been officially handed over to Cape Nature and SANParks. ALSO READ: MTPA hosts biodiversity workshop Sotyu addressed the recruits and told them they could be proud of themselves. “Graduates, you must embrace this opportunity. Please don’t disappoint us. Go from here and reach something, and don’t go back and do nothing. The key is discipline, discipline, discipline.” Trevor Abrahams, managing director of WOF, said this programme trained people to become leaders, not just firefighters. “This is where they are moulded and shaped to end up as proud products of the academy.” ALSO READ: Students of the University of Mpumalanga protest in demand of allowances He said that the people trained here moved on to all walks of life, and moved up in the ranks. Abrahams said this programme is a testimony of the partnership between the private sector and government. “This programme is known globally and a force to be reckoned with.” He said this programme was started to attend to a great need, and assisted the government in growing employment opportunities. The acting director general, Morongoa Suzen Leseke, said this programme should be institutionalised and become compulsory for every young person. “The training does not end here; this is a discipline. When something is skew, you will straighten it,” said Leseke. Rewards were given to the fittest man and woman, the most improved recruit and the best student academically. Winston Jones, the overall top achiever, said he wanted to encourage the youth. “I want my children to see what I have achieved.” ALSO READ: Brides-to-be in Mbombela have nothing to worry about in preparation of their special day Apnezile Skunitana said the training was easy for her, but that she had learned a lot of discipline. “It changed me. I am no longer the person I was before, and this will help me provide for my family,” she said. On its full cycle, this initiative will provide 320 new job opportunities at the identified Department of Environment, Forestry and Fisheries plantations with fully equipped firefighting teams.