 According to Marinda Toerien, organiser of the event, they made approximately R70 000 on the night and got an additional donation of R50 000. Toerien said the idea for the event came to her in a dream about 10 years ago. In the dream she only used local talent and the money went to Children in Distress. This is exactly what she did, and with great success.  In the early years, the singers performed to backtracks, but after Toerien and her husband were invited to the official Gospel Skouspel, she got the idea of putting a whole band together.
The Manna Auditorium also recently had big screens installed that only added to the splendour of the evening.  Lauren Weitsz, executive pastor and project manager for Children in Distress, said the money would go to the NPO’s projects (of which there are several) that need it the most. “We have been looking after elderly people and vulnerable children in the greater White River area since 1989. Currently we are looking after around 3 000 orphaned and vulnerable children, as well as 226 caregivers, who are in distress due to poverty and the HIV/Aids pandemic. Our children are being cared for by relatives and distant relatives or elderly people with little means of support. They live in the Mganduzweni, Jerusalem, Cho Cho Cho, Ncobaneni, Chweni, KaBokweni, Daizenza and Phelandaba areas in Mpumalanga. We are also looking after 35 child-headed homes,” said Weitsz. The goal of their projects is to create socio-economic contributors to the community. “To put it simply: well-rounded individuals who are motivated, have a vision and are capable of achieving that vision while contributing to their environment and community,” said Weitsz. ALSO READ: Three people, two pianos and one house Of the fundraising evening, she said, “All kudos to Marinda and the Skouspel team. They put in hours and hours and they are so dedicated.” Children in Distress is a community-based NPO with Section 18A status. If you would like to make a donation, contract Lauren Weitsz on 083-273-8636. ALSO READ: Bakwena provides information for its road users travelling on the N1 and N4 routes