 MBOMBELA – All systems are go for the payment of social grant payments from March 31, according to the social development minister, Lindiwe Zulu. The minister made the announcement on Tuesday at a social cluster briefing in Pretoria. Zulu said that retailers and the banking industry are working with the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) in a bid to make arrangements for beneficiaries to have access to their funds. ALSO READ: Member of Executive Council visit communities in Mbombela to ensure compliance with 21-day lockdown “We work with Treasury to make sure that the monies are paid a bit early, so that people can access the money. We are happy that Treasury has stepped up and made sure that everything is processed properly. “Citizens are reminded that the elderly and people with disabilities should be allowed to access their grants on the 30th and 31st, so that they can return home as quickly as possible, given the emergency that has been declared. All other grants will be available from April 31,” she said. Zulu provided assurances to beneficiaries that, once payments are made into their account, it would remain there until it is withdrawn by the beneficiary. Image supplied by IOL. ALSO READ: WATCH: The South African National Defence Force (SANDF) arrives in Mbombela

Hygiene protocol to be enforced at retailers 
Zulu said hygiene protocols and social distancing will be enforced at all retailers, and cooperation is requested to ensure that everyone is attended to without any unnecessary delays. “We wrote a letter to the ministers of police and defence to request that where we might need support, we get it,” the minister said. SASSA offices close
Meanwhile, Sassa offices will be closed from Friday 27 until April 16, and no new applications will be processed until after the lockdown. Picture: Nokuthula Mbatha/African news Agency/ANA ALSO READ: High Court denies man’s urgent application to travel between provinces for his grandfather’s funeral Zulu said all applicants who need immediate assistance will be directed to the department’s Social Relief of Distress (SRD), and applications will be done through the call centre. With regards to grant administration services, Zulu said Sassa’s local offices will also be on lockdown from Friday until April 16. “No new applications for grants will be done during the period of lockdown. Concerns and enquiries can be directed to the call centre on 0800-601-011 or email GrantEnquiries@sassa.gov.za.”
The call centre will be operational during the lockdown. Social development minister, Lindiwe Zulu.  ALSO READ: Continue to support your local animal shelter Social services continue operations
Zulu said while some shelters had to close, others like elderly centres and orphanages cannot be closed. “Our responsibility is to make sure that we step up in supporting them and making sure that they are not left isolated,” Zulu said.