 “Our greatest priority is the well-being, health and safety of our road users and employees,” the statement said. Stringent measures have been put in place at toll plazas to curb the spread of Covid-19. Precautionary measures include increasing communication and awareness efforts among employees, heightening health, sanitation and cleaning activities, and restricting access to only core staff at our plazas. Through the guidelines provided by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Department of Health, Bakwena N1/N4 Toll has set out clear procedures to determine when employees need to self-isolate, and they will provide the necessary support to enable prompt diagnoses. Sanitisers have been made available throughout the plazas to all staff and are used regularly when handling money, cards and interfacing with the public. ALSO READ: How Covid-19 is affecting tourism, schools, events, travel and sport in the Lowveld Employees have been encouraged to minimise contact with others. Continuous updates from the WHO and Department of Health will be communicated to all employees via internal communication channels. Vulnerable workers have been identified and assisted accordingly to minimise the risk of infection. A competent response team is coordinating these efforts, with clear guidelines to enable alignment and efficient response times. In the interest of a safer and healthy environment for all, the organisation encourages families to take good care of their health, increase their vitamin C intake, practice good hygiene, undertake self-isolation for 14 days if an individual has flu-like symptoms (fever, cough, runny nose, shortness of breath) and consult a doctor as soon as possible. ALSO READ: Member of Hawks shot on the R37 to Lydenburg For ease of reference, provided are important numbers relating to Covid-19:
• Coronavirus outbreak 24-hour hotline number: 0800-029-999
• Department of Health WhatsApp Service: 060-012-3456 (add WhatsApp number to your contacts, and type “Hi” in the message block for all your concerns relating to the virus to be answered). Bakwena remains committed to providing an uninterrupted and safe service to all our road users at all times.