 There will be a ban on the selling and transportation of liquor during the 21-day lockdown that will start tomorrow at 23:59. This also applies to supermarkets with liquor licenses. All social gatherings – with the exception of funerals where groups will be limited to 50 people – will be prohibited. Night vigils will not be allowed. “Following the declaration of a nationwide lockdown by the President earlier this week, we have met to outline the measures we would be implementing to make sure that the intentions of this lockdown are realised,” police minister Bheki Cele said in a speech earlier this evening. From tomorrow evening the South African Defence Force will be deployed and visibility will be in increased through integrated foot patrols, roadblocks and vehicle checkpoints. ALSO READ: FAQ: All your lockdown questions answered Metro police departments and other law-enforcement agencies will form part of these joint operations that will be conducted for the duration of the lockdown. Operations, especially roadblocks, will be conducted within communities and residential areas and on provincial and national roads. This will ensure that the movement of people and vehicles is kept to the minimum, with the exception of the transportation of essential goods and services, which include fire and medical emergency services. At these roadblocks, particularly on provincial and national roads, motorists, especially essential-service workers that cross provincial borders, will be subjected to screening by officials from the Department of Health, he said. “In declaring the lockdown, the president exempted essential goods and services. Only these will be allowed. Anything outside of these lists will not be entertained. Anyone found to be in contravention of the regulations will be liable to a fine or imprisonment. “The simplest and best way to combat the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus, is to adhere to the call by the president and STAY HOME. The only time you should be outside of your home should be to acquire essential services such as medical attention or food. “Let us unite against the virus. Remember, our aim is to arrest the virus, not to arrest people,” he concluded. ALSO READ: Courts to remain open, partially, during the lockdown