 BARBERTON – The Buya Mjindi Brigade (BMB), led by former councillor Mandla Mamba and Njabulo Mkhonto, has been at the helm since protests started more than three weeks ago. For Barberton residents, the shutdown has highlighted their dissatisfaction with the amalgamation, with many citing poor service delivery, high rates, rampant unemployment and constant water shortages.  On his Facebook page, Mkhonto listed the grievances as follows, “We want equal job opportunities, water and electricity. “We want our Barberton taxi industry to be free from the big brothers of Mbombela and we want to be addressed by Deputy President David Mabuza.” The general sentiment among the community is that locals are not considered in terms of job opportunities at the mines, correctional services, the police or at the newly built Stimela Mall.  A long-time resident, who did not want to be named, told Lowvelder, “I work at the mines and am appalled that locals are overlooked when it comes to jobs. ALSO READ: Hindus gather in Mbombela to worship Lord Shiva liberating the community “Recently, miners from Lonmin in Marikana were appointed in many top-level jobs here, while locals who are suffering were not even given a chance.” For an overwhelming number of residents, the high electricity and water tariffs topped the list.  “It appears as though we are footing the bill for non-paying areas such as Matsulu, Pienaar and Lekazi. Many of us are unemployed and have to contend with buying R300 electricity, only to receive about 189 or so units. “Our children do not have any opportunities here. There are so many matriculants without jobs while the bills are only rising.” As the strike continued, it emerged that there are others opposed to the unrest. Over a week ago, protesters marching to the Barberton Town Hall for a meeting with Cogta MEC Mandla Msibi, were manhandled inside the hall.  They retaliated and Ward 45 councillor, Lifa Sithole, was injured as protesters threw bricks during the fracas. A tense week followed during which shots were fired in Emjindini as the opposing factions engaged in attacks against each other. The BMB leaders, Mamba and Mkhonto, were arrested on separate occasions over the weekend. The provincial police spokesperson, Brig Leonard Hlathi, confirmed the arrests. Mamba was arrested on Friday and appeared in the Barberton Magistrate’s Court yesterday. The matter was postponed to March 6 for a bail application.  “The arrest was not in relation to the strike, but last year’s case of arson and pointing of a firearm,” Hlathi said. Mkhonto was apprehended on Sunday evening during a prayer session at the Zanini four-way junction in Emjindini. His arrest angered supporters, who vowed that the protest action would be intensified yesterday with a march planned to the court to demand their release. He will appear in court today.  Following Mamba and Mkhonto’s arrest, protesters torched a municipal building in Emjindini next to the Emjindini Senior Secondary School. The local ANC office in Ext 9 was also reportedly set ablaze. ALSO READ: Blood campaigns to be held in several Lowveld towns to save lives