 Tintswalo Grace Mnisi, a 32-year-old from Acornhoek, journeyed with a team of eight people to the “little beautiful mountain” over 12 hours. Mnisi told Lowvelder, “At the beginning of the journey, I was scared and worried about getting injuries. But, as you get along you become more confident.” The group went on a three-day hiking trip. They started walking a 10-kilometre trail along Sani Pass in South Africa to Lesotho.  On their journey it started to rain and the team arrived at their camp site drenched. Mnisi said, “We were at the highest pub in Africa. It is 2 874 meters above sea level.” The team rested for a day in the hopes of favorable hiking weather the next day. “We could not set up a tent due to the weather. Photo: Tintswalo Grace Mnisi We also had to dry our clothes, as we arrived really wet. When we woke up the next morning and saw beams of sunlight, we decided we were going, but some of the other team members stayed behind,” Mnisi said. Enduring all challenges and receiving many cheers from the “positive group”, she made it to the top. Photo: Tintswalo Grace Mnisi Mnisi commented, “I had cramps as we were climbing up the steep walkway. I think this was because my body was tired, and the weather was not helping either. It also started raining again as soon as we got close to the mountain. This was an amazing experience for me. The beautiful scenery and the peace is just one of a kind. I also had my hike bestie, Ncumisa Makangela, encouraging me all the way.” Photo: Tintswalo Grace Mnisi “I was so happy getting to the top. We stayed at the summit for 15 minutes and then had to walk back. Walking back was more difficult than getting up the mountain.” Mnisi started hiking as a young child with her mother. After her mother passed away, hiking brought her the healing she needed, even in other aspects of her life. Photo: Tintswalo Grace Mnisi “Hiking brings healing, tranquility, and gives you strength. Hiking taught me that I am stronger than I think. You can never go up a mountain and remain the same. You become more confident about yourself,” she concluded. ALSO VIEW: Pediatric Care Africa team arrives in White River This talented hiker is excited to embark on many more trails in the coming months.