 According to Hi-Tech Security Nelspruit, each time the power goes off it experiences extremely high call volumes. Please phone in with any accidental activations on 013 752 4470. If your alarm battery has been in use for more than six months, they strongly recommend that you replace it especially if you are going away. If you are going away you need a trusted person to regularly check that your alarm is functioning. Constant load-shedding makes the monitoring of power failures challenging as thousands of outages will occur daily. Generators
Generator theft could be on the rise as the resale value will increase due to load-shedding. Make sure you keep your generator in a well-ventilated area as the fumes are toxic. Remember to then lock it up after use to avoid theft. Never refuel while it is operating and store reserve fuel carefully in order to avoid a fire hazard. Gate motors
Gate motor theft could also increase as the batteries thereof will be in high demand. Have a secure bracket installed.
Remember to have an alternative access point to your yard other than an electric motor.
Gate motor batteries might also start to fail due to load-shedding, meaning if it is your only access point emergency services and security won’t be able to enter should they need to. Appliances and general safety
Fridges and other appliances will also be affected. Remember that if your fridge breaks while you are away, a lot if not all of your food will rot. Have a trusted person check on your appliances while you are away and rather do not stock up on supplies before leaving. Leaving frozen food with a trusted person who is not going away is also advisable.
Candles and lamps pose a fire hazard and there are great alternatives. Affordable solar lamps are available at certain filling stations. Ensure you don’t only rely on cell phone communication as towers might be affected as well. Your neighbours are your closest support, so get to know them and assist one another. Remember to check all electrical aspects regarding your mobility, like gate motors and electronic garage doors. Have alternative ways of entering and exiting your premises should there be an emergency and there is no power. 