 Following the press conference on Sunday evening by President Cyril Ramaphosa declaring a national shutdown, it is evident that different local sectors are taking strain. Despite reassurances from health professionals that the illness is only life-threatening to those with weaker immune systems, the coronavirus still poses a threat to the impoverished with poor access to healthcare. The first case of coronavirus in Mpumalanga was confirmed on Friday morning, in a 27-year-old woman who had travelled to the United States of America. Since then there have been several rumours and many stories circulating, but members of the public should remain calm and follow the updates on the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) website for the correct information. As of March 16 the total confirmed coronavirus cases was at 62 in the country.   This is how the shutdown is affecting the Lowveld.

Schools
The president announced that all schools in the country will be closed from March 18. Some schools have already closed with immediate effect, and most sport activities and tours have been postponed or cancelled. Gary Sim, Uplands executive head, mentioned that both Uplands Preparatory and Uplands College will be closed from this afternoon, with the opportunity for long-distance boarders to stay until Friday when school was supposed to close. “We will reschedule the sport events where possible, but at the moment we have to be cautious and take our pupils’ wellbeing into consideration,” Sim said.
Hoërskool Nelspruit also mentioned that all incoming and outgoing tours have been cancelled and that the school will close tomorrow at 12:00. The school will reevaluate the situation after the school holiday, which was meant to start on Friday. Also read: Local orthopaedic surgeon tests positive for coronavirus Tourism
One of Covid-19’s biggest victims is the tourism industry, especially owners of accommodation establishments catering to tourists. Lowvelder spoke to a few role players. Linda Grimbeek. Linda Grimbeek, COO of the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT), said cancellations are a fact at this stage. “Everyone is getting cancellations and border gates being closed will have a huge impact.”
Denis Goffinet, owner of Needles Lodge in Marloth and also vice chairperson of the Nkomazi Local Tourism Organisation, said: “Cancellations are coming in fast and furious. The effects on Nkomazi are absolutely terrible, especially on higher-level lodging with an international focus.” Guests at his lodge are predominantly from outside South Africa and although he has been getting reservations, they have slowed down by about 90%. Despite this, he said they are adapting quickly. They are working on specials to get local people to support them and he thinks South Africans should take advantage. “This is a great time for South Africans to get out of the big city and support the local industry. It is actually much safer in the Kruger and in small lodges.” He added that, “it is all about how people can adapt. Let staff go on compulsory annual leave so they do not sit around doing nothing. Do maintenance. People want to come, they are just planning for later. We are also not refusing refunding, but rather encouraging postponement. We are telling people they can come in 12 to 15 months and still use their deposits.” The Kruger Inn Backpackers, run by Alison Fitzgerald, has also received cancellations in the past month. Even though they are still receiving reservation requests, they have decided not to accept any until further notice. Their guests are mostly from outside South Africa. Also read: Beware Coronavirus Scams Zebrina Guest House, owned by Annelie Pretorius, has more of a local clientele, with only about 10% of her guests coming from abroad. “International bookings have declined and we have also received requests for postponement from Italy and Israel, as people are not allowed to travel. We have not had any international guests the past two weeks, which is strange.” She said people still book, but only for the distant future – maybe for six months from now or even later. Even though the virus was unforeseen, they also would not be changing their cancellation policy. Pretorius said “in the past we did not have the virus, but everyday things still happened. We will have a meeting later today, but I think our cancellation policy will remain the same. Our local reservations are still looking good, but I do not know whether that will change after last night’s speech.”

Events
Many events have been postponed following President Ramaphosa’s address. Among these are the BrannaRum Festival in Mbombela, the Lekkerland Festival in Dulstroom and the Strab Music Festival in Mozambique.

Sport
Most of the school sports are taking the brunt of the Covid-19 outbreak, although there are uncertainties about the sports events taking place at the Mbombela Stadium. Also read: 2020 Comrades Marathon to go ahead as planned Covid-19 news on the future of rugby games  Tennis South Africa yesterday confirmed that all TSA-sanctioned tournaments in the country will be suspended for at least the next six weeks until April 20 at the earliest. “Even though there will be no immediate effect on TSA-sanctioned events, as none will take place before the end of May, the the action-tennis tournament that would have taken place on Thursday, as well as the Valencia Men’s Doubles on Saturday, have been cancelled,” said head of Lowveld senior tennis, Wynand le Roux. He said the next TSA event in the Lowveld will be the VDL Lowveld Slam at the end of May. Almost all other sport have been cancelled.

Travel
President Ramaphosa also announced that 35 of the country’s 53 land ports of entry will be closed. The Bothashoop, Emahlatini, Josefsdal, Nerston, Onverwacht and Waverley border gates into Swaziland have been closed. The Pafuri and Giriyondo gates in the Kruger National Park into Mozambique have also been closed. * As the above information is constantly changing, this was the most up to date facts at the time of going to press.