 Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng recently issued directives on how the courts were to operate in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Although the Constitutional Court and other superior courts are presently on recess, which does not apply to the lower/Magistrate courts, all courts would, notwithstanding the Coronavirus pandemic, continue to operate to a limited extent to deal with urgent matters. Also read: SanParks to close all facilities tomorrow following coronavirus lockdown The Chief Justice has, in terms of section 165 of the Constitution and section 8 of the Superior Courts Act, already delegated the authority to make customised directives to all heads of superior and lower/Magistrate courts. This will enable courts to remain open and operational to a limited extent as determined by the head of each court after consultation with their colleagues at that court. Also read: Covid-19: Public transport to be halted – “Let’s respect the lockdown and stay home” Broadly, the courts will, as an essential service, remain open for the filing of papers and hearing of urgent applications, bail applications and appeals or matters relating to violations of liberty, domestic violence, maintenance and matters involving children. * Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news
Dear reader, 
As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. 
Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).