 “The City realises the need for minimal disruptions to the delivery of services to its communities, while still adhering to the directives of the lockdown,” reads a statement by Wiseman Khumalo, municipal manager of Mbombela. The statement continues to say to ensure services are still rendered during this time, the following measures have been put in place. Essential services Energy Officials will be available to respond to emergency situations when the need arises. Customers should continue to log such calls at the municipal call centre around the clock. There will be no new meter installations during the lockdown. Water and sanitation Operations and maintenance teams will all be on duty in all regions.
All water and sanitation service providers to the City will also be on duty. Calls can be logged with the municipal as well as Silulumanzi call centres. ALSO READ: Courts to remain open, partially, during the lockdown Water tankers will continue to provide water to communities where such a service is needed. Traffic control and law enforcement Traffic-control and law-enforcement personnel will be on duty. Licensing offices will be closed and registration and licensing services will be suspended. Community services Waste removal will continue as scheduled, with the exception of the CBD, which will be done on Mondays and Fridays.
Sweeping of streets and picking up of litter will only be a required basis after daily assessments. Cemetery services staff will be on standby. Public works Maintenance of cemetery routes will be done as and when an assessment has been done. Payments for municipal services Customers are encouraged to use external vending services to pay for services and to buy electricity at supermarkets such as Pick n Pay, Shoprite, Checkers Hyper, Woolworths, Spar, Boxer Superstores, and filling stations. Additional vendors in the southern region are Barberton Meat Suppliers, Sithengekile Café, Task Motors, Simba Store, Afroflo, Bongani Emjindini, Saphilasive Trading, and Kafil Trading. Online services are still available at all banks and are recommended. ALSO READ: Bed race at Sonpark Centre brings town together for a good cause Tenders All tenders affected by the timing of the lockdown will be extended to April 21 and April 30 respectively. Contact numbers to be used at all times
• City of Mbombela Emergency:
013-753-3331
• Central call centre:
013-759-9301/2/3/5-8
• Silulumanzi Call Centre: 086-174-5858 Heads of departments
General manager of energy: Mr S Sibeko, 081-856-8593
Acting general manager of water and sanitation: Ms B Seloane, 071-686-0744
General manager of public works, roads and transport: Mr X Mabila, 082-395-1779
General manager of community services: Ms M Thumbathi, 082-669-7709.