 Guests were presented with information about achievements in the past year and plans for the future. Sinani Noma Kanjani is a non-profit church-based organisation that partners with community-based projects, “to grow each one into a fully operational life centre where orphans are known by name, cared for, fed, and helped with homework.  Video Credit: Sinani Noma Kanjani It is a place that gives hope and opportunity for these young people to grow to their God-given potential,” said Aaron Ngomane, a member of Sinani. Craig Rebro, executive director of Sinani Noma Kanjani, told Lowvelder, “We are excited that this year has already started out with a full agenda.  We are working on some major initiatives and there is a special documentary event coming up on Saturday May 16. We are launching three new cycling clubs in the communities of Msholozi, Malalane and Oakley.” The organisation already has a successful club in Zwelisha, and they are using their top young riders to mentor new clubs. They are also starting the Sinani Soccer Premier League. ALSO READ: Pelo ya Mosadi project gives girls a better quality of life in Mpumalanga This will include seven teams from different communities, totalling 105 players. “We still need sponsors in order to make this a successful league, but we know that when it happens it will have a positive effect on the young men who participate. We’ve learned that providing healthy activities keeps kids off the street and out of trouble,” said Rebro. Sinani takes youths in the communities to camps, where they teach them about Jesus, team building and leadership skills.  At the launch, Cebile Makama shared, “We do not just feed the communities; we build relationships with them. We listen to their problems. We become family to them and we tell them about Jesus.” ALSO READ: Blood campaigns to be held in several Lowveld towns to save lives The project has assisted those involved in the community to grow spiritually. Parents share testimonies of their children becoming respectful and being more focused in life. Tronah Sibiya said when she grows up, she wants to be a social worker. “These people helped me a lot and so I want to help too. I want to give people love, care and respect.” Sinani will also start a farming foundation, where they will train communities how to farm without using chemicals, make compost and plant medicinal herbs. The viewing night of the first documentary will take place in May, the date to be confirmed. ALSO READ:2019 KLCBT awards finalists announced “It will serve as an advocacy event, as well as a silent auction fundraising evening,” said Rebro. The viewing will take place at Christie’s at 32 on Russell, Mbombela. Interested candidates can RSVP to connect@sinani.org.