 She said, “Covid-19 has forced its way into our lives, uninvited and unexpected. Many are already feeling drained, emotionally and financially. It is tough to fight the demons in your head. But remember, you are not alone.” She advised the following: “As you wake each day, meditate or pray. Call in courage and strength. Be conscious of your blessings. Stay grateful. Many across the globe are not waking up this morning, and even more are waking in extreme dire circumstances, not even in a bed, and without food in their tummies. “Get up. Stretch. Take a bath or shower, even if it is only a bowl of water over your head. There is no better feeling than having clean hair and a fresh body. Look at yourself in the mirror and say, ‘I can do this.’ Put on your best clothes. Every day is special. “Listen to music. Pump up the volume. Sing out loud and dance like nobody is watching – because they cannot, anyway. They are all at home. “Escape in a good story. Find a movie. Read a book. Listen to a podcast or audiobook. There are hundreds of sites where you can stream or download free. “Write. It is cathartic. Bleeding onto a page or computer screen helps to get it all out and to process your feelings more objectively. “Exercise. Walk or jog around your house or dining room table. Do pilates or yoga. If you need a teammate, find a YouTube instructor or Skypercise with a friend. Do what you can in your space at home. Exercise gets the feel-good endorphins going. “Put your face in the sun. Cabin fever is real. Sit in the sunlight. Listen to the birds. Smell the roses. Lie on your back and watch the clouds or stars. Be still. Silence is not always empty. Sometimes it is full of unexpected answers. “Unlike me, you can keep your hands busy. Clean out cupboards. Do those projects you never have time to do. Get creative. Find something that stimulates your creative juices. It can be better than any therapy. Go through old photographs – memories bring hope and will keep you motivated to stay positive and keep fighting to stay healthy. “Stimulate your mind. Do a word or number puzzle. Play chess and other board or card games. “Laugh. Humour is the best healer. Stand-up comedy on YouTube has kept me laughing for days. “Stay home, but connect with others. Reach out. Open up. Speak to a friend on the phone. Use technology if you can. There are many support groups for all types of people on social media. You are not alone. Help somebody else, even if it is just to listen. It does wonders for your self-worth. “Never give up.”