 BARBERTON – A semblance of normality returned to the town this morning as pensioners and SASSA-grant recipients made their way to town. It was evident that a large number of shoppers today were intent on stocking up on the basics, judging by the contents of their shopping trolleys. At Stimela Crossing, the queues at Shoprite, OBC Chicken and Clicks wound their way around the corner as retailers enforced social distancing measures in an effort to curb the spread of Covid-19. A security guard at Stimela Crossing sanitising a customer’s hands. ALSO READ: Social development minster says all systems are a go for social grant payments In the fourth day of the national lockdown, it is evident that the majority of pensioners of who ventured outdoors today are taking the global pandemic seriously. Face masks and latex gloves were worn  and the now ubiquitous hand sanitisers were used before and after entering shops. At Stimela Crossing, in particular, security guards were on duty, sanitising customers entering and leaving the mall.
Further afield, more customers could be seen at MultiSave, PicknPay and Checkers, waiting their turn in the seemingly ever-growing queues to buy the staple of mealie meal, samp and beans, sugar, butter, oil and toilet paper. Linah Nkosi (71). ALSO READ: SPAR takes extra measures after Minister Patel announces new regulations For 71-year-old Linah Nkosi, the trek to town from Emjindini proved exhausting. “I do not have the strength to carry my parcels and transport to and from home is a bit more expensive than I expected. I have encouraged my family to maintain the strict hygiene measures that are in place right now and I pray that  the lockdown passes quickly, ” she said. Stocking up on the bare necessities. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Premier denounces allegations of being ill For most pensioners, the lack of transport to areas such as Emjindini, Sheba Siding and Khaleni meant forking out more cash in order for their groceries to be delivered to their homes. The pensioners who descended on the town this morning have managed to fill their baskets with the bare necessities to stock up their cupboards as South Africans continue the lockdown.