 The all-authentic and all-original uGroups of Unite180 takes place in a house near you every Wednesday from 19:00. (However not during the lockdown period). According to Pastor David Grobler, lead pastor of Unite180, this church believes that every person has a God-given purpose and great potential. “The Unite180 uGroups have created an environment designed to draw out their gifts, a place where what you have can serve to inspire others,” said Grobler. He said that the platform is based on a Biblical model where each person is actively engaged in an authentic and original Christ-like lifestyle. The process is through prayer and consideration: get connected, start growing, start serving, start living. “The Unite way consists of seven pillars based on scripture. All about Jesus, all about people, resolute faith, spirit and power, promote the good, visible honor and exponential thinking,” he said. Grobler is the founder and lead pastor of Unite180 church, based in Pretoria. ALSO READ: Brand South Africa urges citizens around the world to play their part Currently furthering his studies with an honours degree in theology, he also completed his Masters in Business Administration at the University of Stellenbosch in 2015. “The Unite180 church, with a membership base of 2 500, has planted five campus locations across South Africa in seven years, outgrowing the venues and requiring multiple services,” he added. The locations is in Montana, Brooklyn, Barnyard theater in Rivonia, Potchefstroom, Stellenbosch. uGroups takes place across South Africa as well as internationally. He also recently established his second Bible school, called the Unite180 uSchool of Ministry. Pastor Chanelle Grobler, his wife, co-founded Unite180 with him. She oversees the Unite180 uSchool of Ministry and coordinates the uGroup network. In the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic the church submits under the president’s announcement forbidding gatherings of more than 100 people. “We are well equipped to live-stream and have been doing it for a while, but have started a worship experience, WE-Host, every Sunday. uGroups gather to watch church together. You can be connected to a uGroup near you by going on their website, www.unite180.com, or through social media,” Grobler said.