Have you ever noticed the tranquillity that descends upon you when looking out over the forests and greenery that are inherent to our Lowveld landscape? Or the feeling of bliss when sitting under a tree, listening to the birds and feeling the grass between your toes? That is because being in nature, or even viewing scenes of nature, reduces anger, fear, and stress, and increases a feeling of well-being. Exposure to nature not only makes you feel better emotionally, it contributes to your physical health, reducing blood pressure, heart rate, muscle tension and the production of stress hormones. The Aloe craibii is a critically endangered species that is being protected in Sappi’s conservation areas. Photos: Peta Hardy With the heightened focus on our health and mounting stress as a result of what is happening in the world, we can all do with the therapeutic properties offered freely by our natural surroundings. And while we all heed the call to take care of ourselves, we can rest assured that Mother Nature is also being taken care of, to provide solace for generations to come. Nearly a third of Sappi’s land is not planted and is managed for the conservation of biodiversity. This includes about 5 000 hectares of pristine grassland (including thicket and forest) in Mpumalanga. To date, four nature reserves have been gazetted, three of which are on Sappi’s Twello Plantation in the Barberton district, and one near Ngodwana. By formally declaring these areas, Sappi is committing to the long-term protection of extensive tracts of land, representing critical biodiversity areas and threatened ecosystems. A fifth area, on a farm recently acquired by Sappi, covers a further 750 hectares and is currently being evaluated for inclusion in the Biodiversity Stewardship Programme. As a community living in and among these pristine areas, Lowvelders are in the fortunate position to take advantage of the ample benefits offered by scenes of untouched beauty. Because we are genetically programmed to find trees, plants, water and other nature elements engrossing, studies show that we are absorbed by nature scenes and distracted from our pain and discomfort. Furthermore, studies have shown that 95 per cent of people experience an improved mood after spending time outside, changing from depressed, stressed and anxious to more calm and balanced. So while measures put in place to limit the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus might limit your natural interactions to views on the horizon, know that a treasure trove of natural beauty is being maintained on your doorstep for your enjoyment when you are able to emerge.    