 Animal shelters, such as Pro-Life Pet Rescue, are struggling due to the Covid-19 pandemic and are in need of support. The organisation’s fundraisers and events have either been postponed or cancelled, as its first priority is the safety and well-being of the community. “Unfortunately, this is negatively impacting our finances,” said Karin Erasmus of Pro-Life. The public can assist by adopting a pet or donating pet food, supplies, cat litter or quality items you no longer use for the organisation to sell. A monetary donation, big or small, will also assist in buying food. ALSO READ: Bed race at Sonpark Centre brings town together for a good cause “If you are going to be at home, please consider fostering an adult cat or dog for the lockdown period,” said Erasmus. They are also reducing their kitten adoption fees to try and get their last eight kittens adopted before lockdown. The fee is now just R500, that includes 2 x 3-in-1 and leukaemia vaccinations worth R1 000 and sterilisation at six months of age. Pets do not spread Covid-19. Members of the public are urged to postpone their holiday instead of cancelling, thus using the kennels when they do go. “This will help us as well as the tourism industry.” The banking details are as follows: Pro-Life Pet Rescue, Standard Bank Mbombela, account number 030-260-965, branch code 052-852, reference: donation and your name. ALSO READ: The Ramblers Hiking club did its last hike on Saturday, for the time being Pro-Life will remain open for business and take prescribed and necessary precautions. Office hours are 09:00 to 14:00 weekdays and 09:00 to 13:00 Saturdays. Closed on Sunday and public holidays. Contact Pro-Life on 079-498-7971 or prolifepetrescue1@gmail.com. “As from Thursday afternoon we will be closed to the public for the duration of the lockdown. “Rest assured that we have resident staff that will remain on the property to feed and care for our pets. We are unfortunately not in the position to take in any more pets at this time. Our first priority is the pets we have already rescued and our staff,” said Erasmus.