 South Africa is in uncharted territory with the announcement of a nationwide lock down starting at midnight on Thursday. Every country in the world has now been affected by the Coved-19 virus. South Africans have been told to stay at home and that only vital industries will remain open. People are rushing to the shops to stock up and public spaces have been closed. Surely this will be the perfect time to clean the garage or start that veggie patch that you have always wanted. Board and card games will be perfect for this period. If you are lucky then you might even win that game of Monopoly that you have never finished. One thing that will always be on hand is some kind of mobile device to find out the latest numbers and read about news from around the world. Mobile games and apps will undoubtedly be a companion during this time. Betway is known for sports betting and during this time there are still sport games that are played behind closed doors so sport enthusiasts can still bet on sport. Betgames is a recent fun and exciting addition at Betway. Betgames can be played on most hand held devices and is available on IOS and Android.  Betgames is done live with a dealer and the betting starts from as little as R1. There are ten different types of games to play. There are number games that go to a live studio where the draw for each game is done with a ball number machine. You can choose any number of different outcomes such as odds and evens to which colour the numbered balls will be. The card games are all done by a live croupier. Card games include Speedy 7, War of Bets, 6+ Poker, Bet on Poker and Baccarat. Bets also start from R1. Dice Duel is the only game that works by rolling the dice. You can either bet on Red to Black to win, you can also choose the number that the dice will fall on or if the dice will be odds or even. Signing up and creating an account is made effortless and only takes a few minutes. There are different ways to deposit funds from using your debit card to using USSD and EFTs. Withdrawing funds is also made easy with different ways of withdrawing funds available. Always bet only what you can afford and remember that the bet games are supposed to be fun.