 It is hours before South Africans will be locked down for 21 days. Nine hundred residents have tested positive for Covid-19, also known as the new coronavirus. Almost half a million people have been infected worldwide. Twenty two thousand have died. Two sets of regulations have been published by the South African Government. The first was dated March 17, 2020 and the second, March 25. Yesterday, ministers explained how the nationwide lockdown will work. Both documents are available to the public, but many find the technical jargon puzzling. Caxton Local Media makes use of podcasts and infographics to summarise what readers need to know in order to be compliant. This feature contains only what is said in the published regulations – phrased in everyday English.   As the podcast above explains, we are all expected to stay inside our homes. Essential trips may be made. This includes trips to your closest grocery store, pharmacy or as dictated by medical emergency. Those who perform essential services or are involved in the making, packaging and distribution of essential goods may leave their homes on order to do their jobs. These people will have to possess the applicable permits and proof of identification. Government has provided a guideline for the permits required:  This infographic sets out what qualifies as essential goods.   Caxton Local Media has made a list on essential services as well.     Lastly, we have listed areas that will not be operational and may not be visited during the lockdown period.  Eloff is an admitted attorney and the legal advisor of CTP Limited. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as ‘fake news’) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19.