 Ironically, it may be difficult to associate Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) within the education system but these ever-changing landscape demands sound Health and Safety precautions. A growing trend in acts of violence in South African schools further emphasises this need. This scenario is underscored by the fact that, on average, 60 people are injured every day in places of learning such as schools, colleges and universities. It is not only students but also their teachers who need to be kept safe and healthy. When it comes to OHS demands, every industry is unique. The education industry has different elements of low and high risks and some of these were recently pinpointed in a Government white paper. The importance of OHS at all levels of industry in the country has been publicly recognised by the Employment and Labour Minister, Thulas Nxesi. His goal is to achieve a zero accident rate. Together with leaders in the OHS field, such as the nationwide MakroSafe consultancy, much success can be contributed towards Mr Nxesi’s vision.  SafetyWallet supported by MAKROSAFE has implemented programmes that eliminate risk and hazards within the industry environment. These are monitored by trained professionals who ensure that all levels of the industry are compliant with the OHS Act. With more than two decades of experience, MAKROSAFE provides services to thousands of South African organisations, acting as their OHS watchdog and advisor. The company has branches in major cities throughout the country. MAKROSAFE’s major trump card within the OHS environment is its SafetyWallet Rewards Programme. This enables industry players to achieve whopping returns on their health and safety investment. The SafetyWallet is divided into four categories: In terms of private education institutions such as schools, colleges and universities, the majority fall into the Pinnacle Circle. While this may be the most costly of the SafetyWallet programmes, the Pinnacle Circle offers a Return on Investment (ROI) of a staggering 627.5% on Maintenance and Health and Safety. SafetyWallet’s Health and Safety solution in the education field is geared to achieve total coverage of all aspects of the OHS compliance regulations, powered by OHS Online. These include: The Health and Safety Compliance Audit is crucial in the South African education environment.  Health and Safety Risk Assessment forms an integral part of the OHS Act. This has to be conducted and monitored at regular intervals. It requires a thorough understanding of every aspect of OHS legislation to ensure that basic Health and Safety strategies and procedures are adopted. It is also essential to meet compliance demands. Regular inspections can prevent fatalities, accidents, incidents, injuries and illnesses. This aspect of Health and Safety at the education-level should be placed in the hands of professionals. Injuries on Duty services prevent accidents and the time-consuming process of administrative follow-ups with authorities.  MAKROSAFE offers several additional services to augment its overall Health and Safety portfolio. Some of these include: The Education Services Industry operates at both public and private level. These institutions include schools, colleges, training centres and universities. OHS responsibilities are far-reaching and involve aspects such as: MAKROSAFE is a widely recognised and respected OHS consultancy that implements programmes supported and managed by state-of-the-art technological systems. With the rewards programme in SafetyWallet this ensures that the South African education industry service providers adhere to OHS standards cost effectively and achieve optimised results in the reduction of Health and Safety hazards.