 Wendy Alberts, CEO of the Restaurant Association of South Africa, communicated the information from Minister Bheki Cele to local businesses. The regulation informs that businesses must only accommodate up to 50 people – this includes the staff working at the establishments. Businesses such as bars, taverns, clubs and restaurants that sell alcohol can start selling alcohol at 09:00 and stop selling at 18:00 during weekdays and 13:00 on weekends and public holidays. The press release stated, “All liquor opened, closed, finished or unfinished must be off the tables by 18:00.” It further stated, “A register of all persons entering the premises must be kept. This includes name, surname, address, contact number, identification number and next of kin.” These decisions were taken following the president’s address on precautionary measures to curb the Covid-19 global pandemic. ALSO READ: Be an ideal citizen #StopTheSpread This regulation has had an effect on businesses in Mbombela. Owners and managers of businesses commented on how it influences them. Ettienne Coetzee, owner of The Pub, commented, “This affects business badly. Sixty per cent of our business happens after hours. However, we are taking precautionary measures. We have sanitised everywhere; we sanitise our tables every hour and provide hand sanitisers for customers. Our staff have also been trained to contain the situation.” “This is affecting business big time,” said Sazi Mfinango, manager of the Jock Pub and Grill. “We hardly have customers and we still have staff to pay at the end of the month. To contain the situation, our staff wear gloves and face masks. We provide hand sanitiser for visitors at the door. Our restaurant is safe and we are aware of the situation.” ALSO READ: White River woman is in need of contributions to undergo hip surgery Lee-Ann van Zweel, owner of Orange Restaurant, noted that there seems to be misinformation in the public. “Clients have cancelled some bookings as they are under the impression that restaurants must close. We are confident that once the correct information has been dispensed, Orange Restaurant will be trading as normal, albeit within the limitations prescribed by our government and the National Disaster Centre.” These and other establishments are still open for business and taking precautionary measures to keep their staff and customers safe.