MBOMBELA – Bergland se o/11 A-rugbyspan is hierdie week elk verras met ‘n hamburger en sappie.
As deel van ‘n vennootskap tussen Lowveld Media en McDonald’s, word daar elke week ‘n klas in ‘n skool bederf met dié versnaperinge.  Hierdie week was egter ‘n bietjie anders en is die eerste rugbyspan gekies vir die bederfies.
Danté Milligan se ma, Stephany, het ingeskryf en het vertel van haar seun en sy medespelers wat na Grey College Primary School in Bloemfontein gaan toer. “Net sekere skole word genooi na die geleentheid. Dis ‘n groot eer vir die span,” het sy gesê. Julia Burger en Desiré Fourie van Laeveld Media het die span met McDonald’s verras na hul rugby-oefening by Nelspruit Rugbyklub. Al die seuns was tog te dankbaar en opgewonde oor dié groot bederf. MBOMBELA – Pupils of the Button Foundation were surprised last Friday when they received cheeseburgers and juice from McDonald’s, as part of a partnership between Lowveld Media and the fast-food franchise.
This foundation was chosen after a letter from one of the learners’ mothers was received. “My son Dillon is deaf and there are no schools that completely provide for this disability. It was with great excitement that I heard that Jaydre Button was reopening her centre.  “In class they all learn sign language and use it when games are played. I saw my child go from being distant, to wanting to go to school and being excited about it,” Bianca Swanepoel said. The Button Foundation was established in 2008. “We recognised the need parents have to educate their children, as most work and struggle to set aside enough time for home education. “A great part of these needs involves learners who struggle to concentrate or suffer from some sort of condition that makes mainstream education difficult,” explained Jaydre Button, founder of the foundation. All the pupils were very excited about the treat, as well as being featured in the newspaper. Children of Little Heaven Preschool and Daycare were treated to a burger bust on Wednesday. The grade R learners were about to dig into their late-morning meal when the Lowveld Media team arrived with McDonald’s burgers and juice. The little ones could not contain their excitement when Hardus van der Westhuizen calleds out from across the room, “Look guys, we will have some lekker food!”  After their treats, the children put their hands together and prayed before digging in.
Lynette Anderson, the grade R teacher who nominated her learners for the burger bust, told Lowvelder, “They truly deserve this. They are hard-working. Even though they are sometimes busy bodies, I still love them.” Rebecca Jacobs, while munching her meal, said to her teacher, “I have not had a burger in a long while.” Mhleli Shabangu commented, “The burger is delicious.” The children ate their meals and a few even saved some for their lunch break. Lowveld Media, in partnership with McDonald’s, busted Nelsville Combined School this week as part of the weekly burger bust. Grade 5A teacher, Lucinda Pate,l sent an email to the Lowveld Media team requesting that her class get busted.
“Most of the kids I teach are underprivileged and come from poverty-stricken areas. However, this does not stop them from being the best they can be and excelling in their academics,” Patel said.  “At the beginning of the year I got sponsors to assist with buying them reading books and starting a book club. I also gave my classroom a makeover to provide a safe space and to encourage learning. These learners would be so grateful should you guys decide to choose us for this awesome initiative,” she wrote. The pupils of grade 5A were all very well behaved and waited patiently for everyone to get their burgers before eating. If you think your class deserves to be surprised, send Julia Burger your motivation to marketing@lowvelder.co.za. 