Prevent the spread of bacteria and viruses with the help of Sanibonani Dry Cleaners. Whether you want to clean your dresses, suits, overalls, curtains, woollen carpets or soft cushioning, it has a quality dry-cleaning solution. High-heat dry cleaning is the surest and most effective way to kill various bacteria and viruses. Sanibonani Dry Cleaners is able to eliminate germs, bacteria and viruses with its multi-layered, dry-heat exposure approach which kills most organisms left in the fabric. Garments go through the dry-cleaning process and an additional steaming process at a heat setting between 120° and 130° Celsius, with exception of faux fur, select outerwear, leather and faux leather garments. These items still go through the standard cleaning processes. According to the Centre for Disease Control (CDC), flu viruses can’t survive above 56° Celsius. Every garment is then covered with plastic for protection and cleanliness. Customers are encouraged to return this for recycling purposes. Sanibonani Dry Cleaners has also implemented additional cleaning and hygiene precautions at their depots. The depot managers have been supplied with immune boosters for their own well-being and other precautionary measures such as hand sanitizers and the regular cleaning of surfaces such as countertops, have been implemented.  This family-owned business was started in 1988 in downtown Nelspruit and has grown into the biggest dry-cleaning operation in the Lowveld with its state-of-the-art equipment. They are a leader in the dry cleaning industry with twelve outlets in and around the area. Sanibonani Dry Cleaners do daily deliveries in Nelspruit from Monday to Friday and three weekly deliveries to Tonga, Malelane, KaNyamazane, Barberton, Thulamahashe, Bushbuckridge and Hazyview.  Sanibonani Cleaning Suppliers not only specialise in dry cleaning but also have a chemical cleaning product range to offer. They are proud manufacturers of their own top quality cleaning chemicals. By using only the best formulations in their manufacturing, Sanibonani ensures excellent products that really work! Linda Pieters, owner of Sanibonani, said that they are there to serve their customers through these unprecedented circumstances and offer them a method of cleaning their garments, curtains and blankets which will effectively help to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in households.     Monday to Friday 8h00 to 17h00 Saturdays from 08h00 to 13h00