 Despite a report issued more than three months ago by the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) in which it instructed the Nkomazi Local Municipality (NLM) and the national Department of Water and Sanitation to clean up the mess, nothing has been done. Other parties instructed to intervene were the Mpumalanga departments of human settlements, cooperative governance and traditional affairs, and the Nkomazi Usuthu Catchment Management Agency. Cllr Mariette Preddy of the DA in NLM, laid criminal charges against all the parties mentioned in the SAHRC report on Friday. The police in town confirmed that they had received such a complaint. Preddy originally brought the issue of contamination of the Transnet building to the attention of the commission in 2014. Despite instructions in a 62-page report by the SAHRC to resolve the matter, nothing was done. She continuously complained to all relevant institutions about the non-compliance. ALSO READ: Essentials to buy for your 21-day lockdown In November 2019, the commission released a 70-page report in which it issued a directive that the institutions must immediately act or face legal action. The situation at the station is so bad that staff members have to fill bags with sand and stack them at the doors to stop the raw sewage from entering the offices. “The sewage also flows over the railway platform. Travellers have to walk through the waste to get to the station building. In light of the national announcement and crackdown on the Covid-19 virus, it is totally unacceptable that any employer allows its staff to work in such conditions,” said Preddy None of the employees at the railway station wanted to speak to Lowvelder, out of fear of intimidation. One worker at the railway shunting yard, however, said during a telephonic conversation the problem of overflowing drains has been plaguing them for months. Not one of the involved parties could be reached for comment at the time of going to press. Updates will be provided as soon as a response has been received. ALSO READ: Bulk buying could lead to an acceleration in the spread of Covid-19, SAPC warns