 Public hospitals conduct Covid-19 testing for free if patients qualify for testing. This is according to the South African Government News Agency (SAGNA). According to press releases issued by private laboratories, tests may cost anything between R990 and R1 500 and patients should enquire with their medical aid whether this will be an out-of-pocket cost or not. But when do I qualify for Covid-19 testing? Those who qualify for testing have been confirmed by a health care practitioner to meet the criteria set out below. These persons are called Persons Under Investigation (PIU). This is according to both the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) and the SAGNA. You may qualify as a PIU if you have symptoms of the virus and have: Covid-19 symptoms include coughing, sore throat, shortness of breath and fever. Drawing blood is one way towards testing for Covid-19. A swab may be taken of your nose or throat, or a sample of a productive cough may be used. If you experience any of the above symptoms, call the NICD helpline on 0800-029 999. The helpline can also confirm where a patient should be tested. Note that South Africa has a limited supply of coronavirus test kits. Therefore, only PUI’s may get tested. Caxton Local Media answers FAQs in more detail below: If I test positive, what will happen to me? According to SAGNA, you will be informed and placed into quarantine (this means that you are ordered to stay in a place of isolation to limit the spread of the virus) at home or at any of the following facilities: Rob Ferreira hospital, one of the facilities where patients may be quarantined.  Is there a cure? At the time of publication, there is no treatment or cure available. However, the symptoms of Covid-19 can be alleviated to an extent. How do I reduce my chances of being infected? The World Health Organisation has provided tips for minimising the risk of infection. This includes washing your hands regularly, or cleaning them with an alcohol-based hand rub. People are warned to maintain a distance of three metres between themselves and others and to avoid touching their nose, eyes or mouth. Self-isolation (voluntarily staying indoors and avoiding contact with other people) is recommended as a precautionary measure. Those who have returned from high-risk countries or who may been in close proximity to someone with the virus, have specifically been advised to self-isolate. Washing your hands regularly assists in containing the virus spreading. Image: Burst via pexel.com. What happens if you have flu-like symptoms and become worried that you might have incurred the disease? Contact the NICD on 0800-029-999 and refer to the PUI criteria above. What does testing for Covid-19 cost? According to South Africa’s official news website, sanews.gov.za, public sector testing is free. This means that, if you are a PUI as confirmed by a medical practitioner, you can get tested at any government hospital free of charge. Private laboratories such as Lancet, Ampath and Pathcare can also test for Covid-19. Each laboratory has its own test fees which, at the time of publication, ranged from R990 to R1 500. Patients who elect to test via private laboratories should enquire with their medical aid to determine whether this will be covered or not. Also read: Covid-19 myths debunked Also read: Three cases of coronavirus in Melrose Arch