 MBOMBELA – The advent of the technological era has brought with it newer, more portable devices which hold the users’ personal information. Over the years, mobile phone technology has brown in leaps and bounds beyond receiving and making calls on a portable hand-held device to include photo and video albums, messaging facilities and personal banking information. With this growth, a counter culture emerged and soon consumers were introduced to new terms such as social engineering, phishing, vhishing, shoulder surfing and hacking. In cyberspace, where almost all financial transactions are conducted, hackers have been inventing novel ways to gain access to personal information. This has necessitated the introduction of safe guards to thwart their attempts at stealing consumers’ information.   ALSO READ: WATCH: Tune In Tuesday – Khomindlela Primary School welcomes Rally to Read 2020 The South African Banking Risk Information Centre (SABRIC), on behalf of the banking industry, issued warnings to bank clients to protect their mobile devices. Mobile phone thefts means that criminals are able to gain access to their victims’ confidential information to commit crimes. With banking applications stored on phones, these devices are the modern-day equivalent of bank cards and the gateway to a consumer’s bank account.  ALSO READ: KLCBT confirms Panorama Route is open and safe for motorists and tourists “Personal information is a valuable commodity for criminals and because so much of it is on our phones, we need to take mobile security very seriously.” “When a bank client’s mobile phone is stolen, they tend to focus on protecting their photos and social media profiles, however, their highest priority should be protecting their money,” said Susan Potgieter, acting CEO of SABRIC.  ALSO READ: Uplands College grade nines hike through mountains outside Barberton Below are ways to safeguard your information in cyberspace: PINS & Passwords  ALSO READ: WATCH: Trail hiker makes it to the summit of the highest mountain in southern Africa Social Engineering  ALSO READ: Mandla Mamba and Njabulo Mkhonto’s bail application postponed to Wednesday Device  ALSO READ: Tips to survive the Mbombela CANSA Relay For Life Banking App