 “An unintended consequence of the coronavirus and the associated closures of schools, tertiary institutions and businesses is that fewer people are on the country’s roads. This will in all likelihood lead to a drop in the number of crashes, injuries and fatalities. But this does not open the door for those still on the roads to behave as they wish,” noted the AA. It reminded people that health services across the country are experiencing huge pressure on their resources. In addition, people with other illnesses and emergencies still need to be cared for and assisted. “Road users who add to this pressure by not obeying the rules, and who through negligent actions cause crashes that require medical intervention, are adding to this pressure and are, quite frankly, selfish, irresponsible, and a danger to others. It is the responsibility of every person who is on the roads – motorists, cyclists, and pedestrians – to behave in such a way that their journeys are completed without incident,” said the AA. ALSO READ: Early morning panic after cash-in-transit heist In addition, the AA said people who are still on the roads need to assess each driving situation, as there are people who are abusing the current crisis by driving recklessly. “An increase in average speeds, specifically on highways, has been noticeable. Always be vigilant, put your cellphone away, and remain focused on the road ahead. Now is not the time to take any chances – even though the roads may appear clear. Now, more than ever, it is the responsibility of those who are still driving to ensure their own, and other road users’, safety,” urged the AA. ALSO READ: Liquor selling and social gatherings banned for 21 days It also said motorists should practise good hygiene in their cars, motorbikes and bicycles by regularly wiping down surfaces that are touched often such as gear levers, steering wheels, handles, handlebars and visors. “We support the measures announced earlier by the president and call on road users to play their role in ensuring they stay safe, and do not contribute to increased infections,” the AA concluded.