“We wish Graham all the best for the future and thank him for all he has done for the prep school, and Penryn as a whole, in his time here. Graham’s genuine care for the pupils, our parents and his staff has always been tangible, and his creative leadership has meant that the prep has navigated the Covid-19 pandemic with ease,” said Grant Williams, executive head of Penryn. Williams will also be taking on the role as head of Penryn Prep from term four, as well as keeping his role of executive head. “Thank you, Mr Roberts, for making sure that Penryn will always be soaring!” Penryn said in a statement. ALSO READ: Penryn learners feature at the MathArt Competition “Graham Roberts joined Penryn in 2018. Upon his arrival, he quickly got to know staff and encouraged them regularly to have ‘fireside chats’ with him. Under his leadership, the management had many days of strategising, planning and training where ‘out-of the-box’ thinking was encouraged. He brought stability and fine leadership to the school. His kind manner and interactions with the learners and staff will be missed. We wish him well in his new endeavours and thank him for all he has done for Penryn.” “Penryn College was established as a ‘beacon of light’ for the Mpumalanga community around Nelspruit 29 years ago, where I was involved as a young teacher as part of the development team while working in Johannesburg,” Roberts said. “I feel that I have gone ‘full circle’ having returned to the school. I know that Penryn will continue in its quest to serve its community proudly.” An official statement by James Aling, chairperson of Penryn Council, read, “Owing to the need for right-sizing and restructuring, it is no longer sustainable to maintain the current leadership structure of a dedicated executive head and two heads of school at Penryn. As a result, we unfortunately had to terminate the services of Roberts, the head of the prep school, and have reached a settlement agreement with him in this regard.” ALSO READ: Penryn Prep grade two learners follow the spoor to adventure