The SAPS national response team recovered stolen copper cables valued at an estimated R700 000, at an abandoned mine in Hendrina last Wednesday. In an unrelated incident, eight suspected copper cable thieves are due to appear in court following their arrest at a farm in Ogies last Friday. The suspects were arrested after police received a tip-off that a house in Brakfontein Farm was used to conduct criminal activities.  ALSO READ: Three suspected hijackers nabbed by Hi-Tech, Nelspruit and SAPS According to the police spokesperson, Brig Leonard Hlathi, the suspects were in the act of packaging the copper cables valued at about R50 000. The men, between the ages of 25 and 55 were arrested and appeared in the Ogies Magistrate’s Court on Monday. They face charges of being in possession of suspected stolen property. “In another incident, police received information about suspects who were stealing copper cables inside a disused mine in Boschmanspoort,” Hlathi said. ALSO READ: SAPS in shoot-out with alleged ATM bombing suspects   Police acted on the information and spotted about 30 armed men in possession of copper cables. The men disappeared into a mine shaft and a gunfight ensued between police and the fleeing suspects. No injuries were reported after the exchange , but the police added a charge of attempted murder after seizing the suspected stolen copper cables. The Mpumalanga police commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma , denounced the suspects’ actions and referred to an incident in Sabie last week during which suspect illegal miners died after entering an abandoned mine. ALSO READ: Convicted jewel thief sentenced to 13 years in jail “General Zuma further indicated that if anyone attacks a police officer, that person attacks the state, therefore these men must be found. He also commended the members for the arrest of suspects and the recovery of the stolen copper cables,”  Hlathi continued. Zuma further added that a number of similar  cases had been reported across the province  and warned that  the police would clamp down on criminals intent on damaging  infrastructure.