Platelet rich plasma treatment (PRP) and stem cell therapy encourage your body to heal on its own, by using its cells to stimulate the healing process. PRP is a relatively new treatment for muscular-, skeletal-, orthopaedic- and brain-related injuries in South Africa. It uses part of the body’s natural inflammatory process to accelerate and enhance healing. Stemcure Clinic has the only specialists offering this treatment in Mpumalanga.  The clinic has been operating in White River for a number of years after Dr Hein van Wyk’s stem cell research yielded some interesting insight. He found that on their own, stem cells don’t work as well as they should when used in treatments, as they are unable to grow when toxins are present. The perfect environment is one where there is no inflammation and no toxins. So he took a new approach to this treatment by combining a specific type of detox (which focuses on cleansing the cells) with PRP therapy. “Stem cells have the remarkable potential to develop into many different cell types in the body during early life and growth. In addition, in many tissues they serve as a sort of internal repair system, dividing essentially without limit to replenish other cells,” he said.  This combination proved to be the key to stem cells working optimally, as it drastically improved their survival rate. “They hold a great deal of potential and with the current research, we are learning more about the capabilities of these unique cells,” he continued. Stem cell therapy is a non-invasive procedure, which means there is no surgery involved and there will be very little to no pain. The treatment at Stemcure Clinic consists of using stem cells from your own body. They have the ability to become whatever cells your body needs, which is what makes them so unique.   What is cellular therapy? Cellular therapy involves cellular material (living cells) being injected into the patient and is used to successfully treat a variety of conditions, while it is also used for cosmetic procedures. The clinic offers stem cell therapy to treat patients. Using those harvested from their own bodies, they help patients to regenerate cells quicker, in order to heal faster. What is a stem cell and why should you consider stem cell treatment? A stem cell is an undifferentiated cell which has the ability to become just about any kind your body needs. Our bodies are reservoirs of stem cells! Effective, safe and non-invasive are just a few of the words used to describe the treatment. Many patients have recovered from ailments and injuries faster when having stem cell therapy. What is PRP treatment? PRP, or platelet rich plasma treatment is the ideal option for various kinds of pain. It involves using your own blood plasma to give your natural inflammatory system regenerative process a kick-start! This is relatively painless, non-invasive procedure. Today, Hein and his son, Louis, who followed his father’s footsteps into the medical profession, treat patients from all over the country while also providing their expert services to people from Namibia, China and Malawi. “You can look and feel great. This is just one of the things we tell our patients. At Stemcure Clinic, you will be in the most caring of hands. “We are a team that is exceptionally passionate about everything we do, and we are even more passionate about the health of our patients. Our practice has been helping people from all walks of life to improve their health, to treat chronic pain and to boost their body’s natural rejuvenation processes using safe, non-invasive medical procedures. And we can assist you too.”  Vein Solutions is a centre of excellence in the comprehensive evaluation and treatment of vein disorders. Dr Gideon van Wyk has a profound understanding of the relationship between veins and the body’s overall circulation. He utilises his unique knowledge, perspective, and experience of more than 16 years, to provide the best overall medical treatment for his patients. Vein Solutions features minimally invasive treatments that provide immediate and long-term results. Gideon is a member of the American College of Phlebology, which is the leading resource for vein-care physicians, health professionals and patients. To determine if a venous problem exists, a comprehensive evaluation is performed through an in-depth medical history and a physical examination by an experienced specialist surgeon. In addition, an extensive ultrasound study is performed by a registered sonographer to help determine the diagnosis. At Vein Solutions, the physician and patient mutually discuss the findings to determine the best treatment plan for the problem. According to Gideon, they are experienced in all vein treatment modalities and are able to recommend the best for the individual. These procedures are performed daily, in a patient-friendly environment and usually in less than an hour.  Almost all procedures are done under local anaesthesia, thereby reducing risk and increasing convenience. Most patients resume normal activities within 24 hours and return to work in days instead of weeks.    