Eskom sent out a media statement yesterday saying it had sent out inspectors to the area on Wednesday only to find at the stay wire anchor on the tower exposed as a result of deep excavation around the base of the tower. Tower 520 is located near Tonga just outside Mbombela, close to the Mozambican border. Eskom said in its statement that the tower is a crucial cross-border power line running from Arnot Power Station in Mpumalanga to Maputo and feeds the Mozal Aluminium smelter which is the backbone of Mozambique’s economy.  The statement said the tower could “could imminently collapse if the foundation is subjected to moderate storms” or “windy conditions”. “If this suspension tower collapses it will take down a few more towers and trip the Arnot-Maputo 400 kV line. Over and above the impact on the Mozal smelter, in Mozambique, this collapsed line will be an extreme hazard to people, animals and vehicles in the surrounding area,” said the statement. Eskom’s occupational health and safety senior manager, Miranda Moahlodi has encouraged people to report “any unusual activity near towers to the local police station so Eskom can get the perpetrators behind bars, or call Eskom on 08600 37566”. “Eskom will be visiting nearby communities this week to educate them about the dangers and impacts that results from sand mining near high voltage power lines. Emergency preparation work to stabilise the stay wire anchor will start immediately.” ALSO READ: No arrests yet after criminals rob Badplaas Police Station The statement follows multiple reports of illegal sand mining at the middle Komati River are from local sugar cane growers who have said if the mining continues, they will be unable to use the river to irrigate their crops and expect to close their businesses in the next six months if urgent action is not taken. ALSO READ: Convicted jewel thief sentenced to 13 years in jail Read next week’s paper for more information on the effects the illegal sand mining is having on the local cane growers.