The temporary halt of funds being paid out will ensure that the UIF not only deals with the gaps identified by the AG, but also that the improvements that have already been identified by management are effective. “While the AG has shown us a number of challenges regarding the payment of the Covid-19 TERS benefits, I must hasten to add that many of these had already been picked up by management. Some had already been corrected for the June payments, but we will continue to improve the system so it responds to the needs of our beneficiaries and makes the payments effective and efficient,” said Marsha Bronkhorst, the acting UIF commissioner. Bronkhorst added that the fund has taken a number of steps to address the systemic challenges that were experienced with regard to the payments. “Firstly, we have entered into a Memoranda of Understanding with a number of government institutions to ensure that we get access to their updated databases. “These include institutions such as the South African Social Security Agency, National Students Financial Aid Scheme, and the Department of Home Affairs. They are currently busy verifying the UIF database to ensure payments reach the correct persons. “Secondly, we have updated our system to ensure that the bank verification happens faster. These include verifications for schools, NGOs, and so on. We are also working hard at improving our Covid-19 TERS application portal to make sure that to the extent possible, it becomes a self-service portal to make it easy for employers and employees,” she said. Bronkhorst is upbeat that the system should be up and ready to help workers as soon as possible to provide financial relief, especially to those who are still under lockdown conditions. The acting commissioner pointed out that despite the challenges, the UIF has delivered in the face of great need. “To date, the fund has received just over 1 104 000 applications for the payment of the benefit and we have paid 825 840 of these. These equate to just under R42 billion, which has been disbursed into 9 501 865 payments to employees around the country. “As soon as the improvements have been finalised, we will be in a position to ensure that workers of this country are provided a cushion to make their lives easier,” she said. For those who defrauded the system, the law will take it’s course. “There are already some cases that we have brought to the SAPS for investigation and prosecution – 35 out of a total of 146. This also serves as a notice to those who may have intentions to try and defraud the system. Not only will it be harder to do so, but even if they do succeed, the law will eventually get them and they will pay for stealing from the employees,” she said. In addition, the Special Investigation Unit has started with its investigation into fraudulent claims and action will be taken against all who are found to have been involved in such activities. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).