MARITE –  According to SAPS reports, one of them had been found with her throat cut open, allegedly by her partner of six years. Police had since launched a manhunt for the suspect. “I will never forget the voice of my daughter telling me that she was afraid and unsafe as she was being followed on her way from work,” said Classy Sekome; the grieving mother of the late Mpilo Glory Sekome, who was allegedly killed by her boyfriend, Danboy Khutso Nkuna. The lifeless body of the 30-year-old employee of Roots Butchery in Hazyview had been found with a huge opening on her neck on Saturday around 12:00 near her home. ALSO READ: Three life terms for killers of police officer and her husband Her mother had last heard from her on Thursday evening when she received a call from her. “She told me her life was in danger and her phone immediately went off. When I tried to call her back she couldn’t be reached,” said Classy. She said she was deeply hurt that Mpilo had been gruesomely killed only three weeks after she had left her abusive relationship. “She had two protection orders against her partner which he also violated,” the mom added. The deceased had two children. Her family described her as a loving, hard worker, who took care for her children and did not deserve to die like a dog. The Mkhuhlu police are also investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of a 47-year-old woman who was killed at her home at Carlton Trust last Wednesday. “She was gunned down by unknown suspect(s), when she went out of her house to remove laundry from the washing line. She was certified dead on the scene of the crime by paramedics,” said provincial police spokesperson, Brig Leonard Hlathi. Another 90-year-old woman from Lillydale, Rhulani Trust was also killed on Saturday. She was found outside her house with a stab wound on her upper body. The SAPS have strongly condemned the three incidents and have vowed to bring the suspects to book.
These gruesome killings come only a few days after a well-known actress of Ikani, an SABC 1’s IsiNdebele drama, Thandeka Mdeliswa was shot at her home in Evander on September 3. She died in a Pretoria hospital on Saturday. “Anyone with information that may assist police in arresting the perpetrators is urged to come forward. Alternatively, call the Crime Stop number on 08600 1011, or leave a tip-off on MySAPSApp that can be downloaded to any smartphone. All information will be treated with confidentiality and callers may opt to remain anonymous,” concluded Hlathi. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga police hunt for gunman in Thandeka Mdeliswa’s shooting death