The City of Mbombela  Local Municipality  (CMLM) workers  went on the rampage at the Nelspruit Licensing Department in Suikerriet Street this morning. Queuing residents, who had already entered the centre,  were  told by two men wearing CMLM overalls to leave the building. The two were joined by a group of about eight others who dumped rubbish at the entrance to the building and instructed queuing resident to vacate the premises. ALSO READ: Poverty-stricken community of Zwelishane Trust left without clean water Nelspruit Licensing Department staffers allegedly locked the doors as the group banged on the security gates. Vusi Madonsela, a city resident who was scheduled to write his learner’s licence test this morning, said,  “I  arrived earlier than my scheduled time to witness what appeared to be CMLM  workers banging on the entrance gate and dumping rubbish outside. “They instructed us to evacuate the centre after which the gates were locked and we continued queuing outside.” ALSO READ: Three life terms for killers of police officer and her husband Another resident, Cornelia du Plooy  said, “They entered the building and loudly demanded that everyone inside leave. “After they had chased everyone outside, they left the building, saying that they would be staging a march to the CMLM  offices. “The police arrived about half an hour later  but did not  get out of their vehicles as the group had already left the scene.” https://youtu.be/mrHWNVz3wBI ALSO READ: Silulumanzi advises of water disruptions expected in White River on September 8 and 9 According to reports, a number of CMLM centres have been targeted today. Unconfirmed reports further indicate that the protest action is as a result of workers not receiving TERS Covid-19 benefits after the national lockdown was eased . CMLM spokesperson, Joseph Ngala, commented, “The talks between management and labour unions are ongoing. “We do not anticipate any strike as we are optimistic that the matters will be resolved.” This is a developing story. Lowvelder  will provide  more information as  further details emerge. 