Through the prevention and relief of suffering, the early identification and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and other problems (physical, psychosocial and spiritual), hospices provide “palliative care”. The word “palliative” is derived from the Latin word “palliare” meaning “to cloak”. Patients are thus cloaked with care and therapies whose main aim is to promote comfort and relieve pain and suffering. At the centre of hospice palliative care is the belief that each person has the right to die pain-free and with dignity, and that family members and carers will receive the necessary support. Hospice White River focuses on providing professional palliative care to people diagnosed with a life-threatening illness, regardless of age, religion and race within the White River community – and in the comfort of one’s own home. “We still encounter many people who think that ‘hospice’ is a place where people go to die when doctors are unable to do anything more for them. This could not be further from the truth,” said Gerdi Willemse, fundraising coordinator. “It’s not about dying, but about the quality of life for those with life-threatening or life-limiting diseases, while they are still alive.” ALSO READ: Public libraries are now open When false information causes someone to delay or refuse seeking help from hospice, patients and families miss out on personalised care and support that could improve their quality of life during a difficult time. “Our desire is to be involved with the patient from the moment they are diagnosed, offering love, comfort and emotional support to them and their family. “We also work with the patient and their physician, so the right choices can be made for the patient and their family,” Willemse said. Contact Hospice White River on 013-750-3044 or whiteriverhospice@tiscali.co.za, www.hospicewr.co.za or visit it at 19 Wildevy Street, White River. ALSO READ: Toastmasters welcome ‘new normal’ with first meeting During visits, the Hospice White River team provides patients with: • Quality palliative care and support to them and their families • Pain and symptom management • Medical care, including home care equipment to assist with nursing • Counselling about practical issues, including your healthcare needs • Personal care through promoting nutrition and hygiene • Emotional counselling and grief support • Addressing the emotional, spiritual and social needs of the patient and family. How do I (or my loved one) get referred to Hospice White River? If you think you would benefit from the services Hospice White River provides, please contact Sr Elsa Swanepoel to assist with the referral process. Swanepoel is a qualified palliative care professional nurse, showing compassion and care towards her patients and family members, who look forward to her visits. ALSO READ: Operation to dehorn rhinos at Manyeleti Nature Reserve a great success