When we make our home, we make it a comfortable space to live in. However, in doing so, we unknowingly make it just as comfortable for pests such as rodents, flies and cockroaches! Pests such as rodents have evolved with the presence of humans because they realize that we offer aspects which increase their chance of survival – food, water and hiding/ breeding areas. Thus, it is quite rare for any home or business to be pest-free. So, the question comes in on how to manage your pest problem.  Classic pest control companies favour easy-to-apply ‘carpet bombing’ approaches. They resort to pesticides as their first choice because it is the simple solution. BUT, it is also the chemically-intensive and often reactive solution – since it targets adult pests that have already bred (not to mention any poor non-target animals that get in the way of the chemical). Thus… who will provide a safe, yet effective service? In answer to this – we have decided to give you an overall guide to help decide on the right pest control company for you.  1. Is your pest control company knowledgeable about the problem at hand and can they provide a proactive, preventative and safe solution? It is important that the solution should not just rely on reactive measures such as spraying chemicals. If your pest control company has not heard of Integrated Pest Management (IPM), they most probably do not have the right solution for you. IPM is the consideration of all pest management techniques with pesticides as the last resort. It is a proactive approach that usually involves a variety of methods such as habitat modification, food waste reviews and bait/ trap systems. 2. Is your pest control technician registered with the Department of Agriculture? This can easily be confirmed by asking them for their P Number (a registered license from the Department of Agriculture with a specific number, starting with the letter P). This number indicates that the technician has gone through the necessary training to obtain a license for pest control. 3. Does the pest control technician know about any risk to secondary consumers/ non-target organisms?  If the pest control technician does not know what you are talking about, they have not done their homework on the effects of their chosen pesticide/ bait on secondary consumers such as birds of prey (eating pesticide-affected rodents) or non-target organisms such as geckos or bees that you do not want to kill. 4. Is the company registered with a Pest Management Association such as SAPCA (South African Pest Control Association)? Although this is not a legal requirement of any pest control company, it shows that the company prides itself in taking an active role in the industry as a whole. 5. Can the company provide you with a list of referrals? Referrals will speak for themselves. If a company does not have a list of current clients that they are happy for you to get hold of, this may speak volumes about their service. Our SMARTSENZ® service encompasses IPM, contrasting the common service provided by classic pest control companies who favour the routine application of pesticides without trying to understand pest biology, pest ecology and pest behaviour. In other words – why there is a problem in the first place. We translate our expert knowledge of pests into a tailored management strategy for your situation whilst conserving the delicate balance of nature. 1. A free site survey: a free audit of your premises which includes screening all buildings and structures for pest issues, reviewing the current pest control operations and assessing your sanitation, food, water and waste management procedures 2. A tailored IPM plan for your needs: a tailored pest report and treatment plan aimed at keeping pest populations below acceptable thresholds and preventing further pest nuisance on your premises. 3. A unique online pest portal: a personalized pest portal that gives you 24-7 access to the pest-demarcated aerial map of your property, monthly service reports, monthly service certificates and all other pest related information that you need.  4. On-going monitoring: By analyzing your pest data from our monitoring traps and your feedback, we constantly fine-tune our approach to ensure optimal pest management for you. IPM requires a problem-solving approach that incorporates constant monitoring and analysis to ensure a sustainable, effective plan of action. As such, we are passionate about: 1. Pest education2. Solving your problem3. Always protecting you Make the smart, sensible and sustainable choice – and choose SMARTSENZ® IPM Services.    