MBOMBELA – Signs of renewal are already found across the region, and the remainder of the spring months is expected to be warm and pleasant. Now, South Africans are eyeing the newly released summer climate outlook as they anxiously await the earthy scent produced when the season’s first rain falls on dry soil. According to the summer climate outlook though, this summer’s maximum temperatures will be cooler than usual, while the remainder of spring’s temperatures will be above normal. Lowvelders are accustomed to extremely hot summers, with temperatures soaring to 35 degrees Celcius, occasionally even higher, with high humidity. The evenings are warm and sultry, with highs of about 20 degrees. Summer usually lasts for more than the country’s average three months, starting in October and lasting until March. ALSO READ: From the Lowveld and looking for true love Below-average temperatures will, however, occur as the El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is starting to lean towards a La Niña state, which tends to favor cool and wet conditions over the summer rainfall areas of South Africa like the Lowveld. According to the climate watch, the likelihood of a La Niña phase during the coming summer months has drastically improved in the past few months. The remainder of spring (September, October and November), taking into account the historical rainfall of the region, will see roughly about 200 millimetres of rain on average. Come summer, rainfall on average will be slightly higher with between 300 and 500 millimetres expected for October, November and December. These conditions will persist until a neutral state is expected to return in February 2021. Temperatures for spring will remain warm and pleasant with minimums reaching between 12 and 18 while the maximum average is expected to be around 28. Though the minimums for summer will rise to between 16 and 20 on average, the maximum average is expected to remain warm and pleasant at 32. ALSO READ: Alleged railway track thieves in eMalahleni court