“The #doekwithadifference campaign gives wearers the chance to communicate a non-verbal message of hope and support to those affected by cancer, while raising much necessary funds towards CANSA’s care and support programmes,” said Ramphosi Shawe, CANSA Lowveld service delivery coordinator. The colourful African wax print doeks can also be used as attractive table runners. This year the #doekwithadifference is more colourful than ever and will be sold to raise funds at R100 each. Individuals and companies can still show their support by buying pink fabric at R30 per metre and wrapping trees in town. Doeks and fabric are available at CANSA Lowveld Care Centre and people are encouraged to show their support by using the hashtag #doekwithadifference on Instagram and Facebook when posting. “Showing support in your community is also a great team building opportunity and companies (big or small) could further engage with #doekwithadifference by launching ‘spin-off initiatives’ such as ‘Wrapped on Wednesday’ or ‘Best Wrapped’ and share photos on social media platforms to generate interest. ALSO READ: SANBS experiences alarmingly low levels of blood stocks Some companies even run competitions for the most headwraps or scarves sold,” Shawe said. Those who purchase a doek will receive a 25 per cent discount voucher on the following screening options at CANSA Care Centres: clinical breast examination; clinical breast exam with the breastlight; pap smear (early detection of cervical cancer); FotoFinder screening (skin and mole analysis) or prostate specific antigen (PSA) blood test which is screening for prostate cancer. Funds raised from the sale of doeks and pink material will go a long way towards contributing to continued care and support for cancer patients. Funds raised from the 2019 campaign helped CANSA to allocate funding towards a care room for elderly patients in Ermelo, medical equipment, patient transport, oxygen supply, stoma bags and accommodation at CANSA care homes for patients receiving treatment far from home. Support this year’s #doekwithadifference and help to change lives. ALSO READ: From the Lowveld and looking for true love