The Read Along app was formerly known as Bolo and the purpose of it is to act as a tutor to assist children with reading. According to Google, the app provides personal assistance in the pupil’s reading and helps them in certain ways such as correcting them and encouraging them when they are correct. Learners will have the opportunity to select what they wish to read from a growing app-based library and the app will throw in some stars as a reward when they read correctly. After the first download, the app works offline which means lower cost in data, more accessibility and relieving concerns around privacy and security. The updated version of the app includes improved features for multilingual children to switch languages or get phonics support when they tap a word.  ALSO READ: Rooibos video celebrates natural heritage and offers a pick-me-up during the pandemic The app has over 700 unique books in nine international languages including Spanish, Portuguese and Hindi as well as a refreshed new look for the content library. Mich Atagana, Google’s South Africa head of communications and public affairs, said, “Google is taking the education journey back to basics by providing a digital platform that will make learning to read simpler and fun especially in the light of Covid-19-related school closures. At Google, we believe technology can help children around the world learn how to read to help achieve the goal of basic universal literacy.” Google heads for the home run not only releasing the new app but also running a global Story-A-Thon starting today, September 8, and ending on September 30. This is done to encourage children to use their imagination when writing stories.  Children stand a chance to have their stories published on the Read Along app if they participate in the global movement. Parents can share stories written by their children during the month of September. UNESCO’s theme for International Literacy Day 2020 is Literacy Teaching and Learning in the Covid-19 Crisis and Beyond. Schools closures and schedule changes due to Covid-19 restrictions have sent parents and teachers online to find educational resources for children.  According to the giant, well-known search engine, since the Read Along app was introduced children have spent more than three million cumulative hours on the app reading over 23 million stories. Internal analysts, feedback from parents and their children across the globe are all encouraging and with the help of the app, beginner readers show a remarkable improvement between 38 and 88% in their oral reading skills after reading for 100 minutes or more on the app. ALSO READ: Pioneer Foods recalls Liqui Fruit Red Grape cans due to safety hazards