Six months after South African President, Cyril Ramaphosa, declared a national state of disaster in response to the coronavirus pandemic, government confirmed that the country’s border will partially reopen. The country has now reached level one lockdown after having relaxed substantially from what was known as level five lockdown in April. Borders have been closed for international travel. Eighteen were partially operational to conduct activities like the import and export of essential goods. According to regulations gazetted today, September 18, 2020, these 18 will become fully operational from October 1. Meanwhile, the 35 remaining borders depicted on the image below will remain closed. Caxton Local Media sets out what readers must know about travelling to South Africa from other countries. Also read: South Africa’s Covid-19 App and whether you should worry Fellow Africans and those from low-risk countries: From October 1, all African travellers will be able to enter South Africa. You will need a certificate proving that you tested negative for Covid-19 no more than 72 hours prior to your departure. If you fail to produce such a certificate, you will have to quarantine at your own cost. Which countries are classified as high risk? Cabinet will soon publish a list of high-risk countries. Will travellers from high-risk countries be welcome in South Africa? International travel from high-risk countries will remain prohibited except for business travel that has been approved by the Minister of Home Affairs. Prospective travellers will have to meet strict criteria before being allowed to enter the country. The criteria must be compiled by relevant cabinet ministers in co-operation with the Minister of Health. Daily commuters from neighbouring countries: Those who work or go to school in South Africa, but live in neighbouring countries, will be allowed to cross the border, subject to compliance with protocols relating to- (a) screening for COVID -19 and quarantine or isolation, where necessary; (b) the wearing of a face mask; (c) transportation; and (d) sanitisation and social distancing measures as per the relevant health protocols on safety and prevention of the spread of COVID -19. Seaports: All commercial seaports will be opened. Airports: International air travel is restricted to the following airports: (a) OR Tambo International Airport; (b) King Shaka International Airport; and (c) Cape Town International Airport. The regulations further state that the Minister of Home Affairs will determine how visa applications services are to resume. Cabinet has also been tasked with developing International Travel Containment Protocols to ensure that no Covid-19 positive travellers are allowed into the country. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).