Mpumalanga artists will not be part of the Gauteng entertainers’ mass protest, in solidarity with the 32 KwaZulu-Natal artists who were arrested and released on R1 000 bail each, for illegally gathering and contravening to the National Road Traffic Act last week.  Their arrest followed an incident where they engaged with the #VulaPresident campaign and blockaded the N3 freeway. They are due for court appearances in Pinetown Magistrate’s Court today. The Mpumalanga Creative Workers Union of South Africa’s coordinator, Alpheus Nhlabathi said the mobilising invitation issued by the Cultural and Creative Industries Federation of South Africa (CCIFSA), to rally Mpumalanga artists to picket with other provinces in the country, reached them too late. Read: Local artists to receive Covid-19 relief fund payments soon  “There was no time to rally others to picket in solidarity with our comrades when I received the invitation,” Nhlabathi said. “Even though we won’t be staging the mass protests like our colleagues in Gauteng and other provinces, we will be with them in our hearts.” He added that #VulaPresident is a movement by Gauteng media personalities who saw the need to stand up and voice to the president and government their plight as artists since lockdown was implemented. “We want the president and government to hear our concerns as we are experiencing struggles during this period,” he said.  Also read: Gospel artists reap awards The Gauteng entertainers, who are masterminding the protest, and many other artists from other provinces said their plea was for President Cyril Ramaphosa to implement 70 per cent capacity for events, “so we can also make ends meet to survive and provide for our families”. For the past five months, artists have been left with no source of income. Nhlabathi said they urge all entertainers, event organisers, DJs, presenters, dancers, actors, models, writers and performers to join the #VulaPresident movement to fight for their rights. The campaign has set up an online petition for people to add their signatures in solidarity with the plight of artists in South Africa.