Two fires broke out in two of the Kruger National Park’s (KNP) camps in the span of a week. The first blaze, at Letaba Rest Camp, occurred on the evening of September 9. Less than a week later, on September 14, another fire broke out at the Berg en Dal Rest Camp. The Letaba blaze affected the camp’s TV room and shop, whereas the Berg en Dal fire hit the Tindlovu Restaurant’s kitchen, deli, and bar areas. Tindlovu is a tenant, and is not affiliated with the park. Investigations are still under way to determine the cause of both incidents. Isaac Phaahla, spokesperson for the KNP, said results are expected within the next two to three weeks. ALSO READ: Fire breaks out at Letaba Rest Camp in KNP Lowvelder was on the scene at Berg en Dal and was guided through the aftermath by operations manager, Henk Thompson and duty manager, Thelda Khosa.  Initial reports suggested that the fire had originated inside the kitchen, but according to Khosa, this was not the case. It had in fact started in that area, but from outside on the thatch roof, and not from the inside.  The fire spread to the deli area, where takeaways are usually sold. Standing inside this part of the building, the sky was visible due to the extent of the damage to the roof.  This was also the case for the bar area’s roof – the last place that was affected by the fire.  According to Khosa, the intensity of the fire was higher on the roof of the bar area than it was in the kitchen and deli areas. She was one of the people on the scene when it started, and relayed the events. “It was after 10:00 when the contractors came and notified me of the fire outside.” General refurbishments are taking place on some roofs, thus contractors were in the vicinity.  When she went outside, there was already smoke billowing on top of the building. Because of how these thatch roofs are built, one would not notice a fire if it started from the outside.  This is when she tried to reach Thompson, who was at Afsaal picnic site at the time, where Tindlovu has another restaurant. Afsaal is about 36 kilometres from Berg en Dal. ALSO READ: Fire at KNP’s Berg en Dal restaurant put out There are Tindlovu operations in Berg en Dal, Afsaal, Satara, Letaba, Olifants, Mopani, Shingwedzi as well as Punda Maria.  “In 30 minutes or an hour or so, the disaster team from Skukuza also arrived to help,” said Khosa. Thompson mentioned that, “The contractors working on the thatch roofs immediately jumped in to help when they realised there was a fire. People from the park shop and SANParks’ people helped. “Everyone was here to lend a hand and we are thankful for that, especially to the camp manager, Johann Mdluli, and his team. Luckily no one got hurt. It could have been so much worse.” Spreading as fast as the fire did from one roof to another, comments on Facebook left little to the imagination. Speculations as to what caused it ranged from insurance claims, to the EFF being responsible, to even blaming SANParks staff.  ALSO SEE: WATCH: Care for Wild Rhino Sanctuary counts down to World Rhino Day Jo-Anne White, chief executive officer of the Tindlovu Group, said she does not think foul play was involved at all and strongly denied that they would stoop to such a level for insurance money. “I am a person of integrity and would not expose myself to something like this.” She mentioned that while the buildings are being repaired, the restaurant will offer options like braai packs to overnight guests. There will also be a pop-up shop available.