“They allegedly fled the scene with one R5 rifle and an undisclosed sum of money,” said Muridili. No arrests have been made in connection with the robbery and information surrounding the incident remains sketchy. However, a source closed to the investigation, who asked not to be named, spoke to Lowvelder about the incident. He said, “At about 01:35, there were five members on duty during the robbery. Three were at the community service centre (CSC) and two were conducting patrols in the area, along with others who were involved in an operation from 20:00 to 01:00.  “At 01:30, those stationed in the CSC heard a person at the gate who claimed that he was being robbed,” the source said.Once the officers unlocked the gate to assist the “victim”, a man approached with a drawn firearm. ALSO READ: Three rob Badplaas cop shop “They shouted for help, but he instructed them to be quiet and remain still. One of the members fell on her colleague, with both going to ground. The two suspects hauled them to their feet. To their surprise, the ‘victim’ was also brandishing a firearm.” Because the gate had been locked, they were surprised that he had gained entry to the police station. The source continued to say the men instructed them to face the wall and demanded that they hand over their service weapons. The robbers allegedly threatened to shoot them if they did not comply.  “The officers were taken behind the police station next to the holding cells as the robbers demanded the keys to the safe. “They denied having the keys, but the suspects continued to threaten them and took them to the CSC where the safe was opened and one R5 rifle with 30 rounds of ammunition, two 9mm pistols with 30 rounds of ammunition and R750 was taken,” the source continued. According to the source, there were two female officers and three males on shift at the time of the robbery. No injuries were reported and no arrests made at the time of going to press. Muridili did not comment on the veracity of the source’s statement and said, “Unfortunately I cannot comment on information that I do not have at my disposal.” Meanwhile, the Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) condemned the incident. The party’s provincial leader, Werner Weber, said, “This is, unfortunately, a clear demonstration of the level of lawlessness in South Africa as well as criminals’ sheer disregard for the police. “This disregard is the result of poor prosecution and inadequate punishments and the FF Plus will keep insisting that criminals who commit robberies and murder must be given the heaviest penalties possible.” In a statement, the FF Plus questioned the police’s ability to defend itself and said the high-calibre weaponry was often used in heists and farm attacks. “While it is becoming more and more difficult for ordinary citizens to arm themselves lawfully, it is unacceptable that criminals can attack police stations and make off with automatic firearms. “Ordinary citizens cannot be expected to effectively defend themselves against these types of criminals if stations are not even able to,” he concluded.