It’s vital that all of your data is always on hand for you to access whenever you need it – whether it’s key business documents or your favourite photos and selfies with loved ones. Because of the crucial role that phones play, nothing is more painful than your device crashing and losing all your most prized memories or documents. Therefore, backing up your information in a secure space is becoming more imperative for everyone. Thankfully, HUAWEI Mobile Cloud is here to ease your stress by offering a simple and reliable way of saving your data, ensuring that you are able to securely store your ‘Cloud 9’ moments as well as your key business documents. Huawei Mobile Cloud & Cloud Backup HUAWEI Mobile Cloud offers a simple and secure service for data backup & synchronisation, enabling you to back up and restore your data and phone settings while easily transferring data across multiple Huawei mobile devices. Furthermore, HUAWEI Mobile Cloud Backup allows you to choose whether you want your content to be backed up automatically or manually. Whether you are transferring data to a new phone or trying to retrieve information from a lost device, HUAWEI Mobile Cloud provides a continual backup plan for your memories. Here are two convenient hacks you should know when storing your data using the Cloud. “ID, please!” When installing and trying to gain access to HUAWEI Mobile Cloud, it is essential that you create a HUAWEI ID. Your HUAWEI ID acts as a ‘safety card’ to access all your information in the cloud. Once activated, you will be able to access this data from your HUAWEI Mobile Cloud on any Huawei or Android device – whether it’s a mobile device or tablet. Better yet, you can sync your data between two or more active devices. Whether it is your family tablet or work phone, your information will be readily available for you to retrieve. Keep it Space-ish Memories are limitless, so why not do the same with your cloud space? HUAWEI Mobile Cloud has three different packages for you to choose from for your back-up plan. Currently they are running a promotional offer and new users will receive the first package of 50GB free for the first month and thereafter only pay a monthly cost of R14.99. However, if you wish to store your data for a longer period, you can have the 50GB at R179.88 for a year or R89.94 for 6 months. Other packages include: If, for some reason you no longer want your cloud storage, you are able to cancel your subscription at any time. Gone are the days where we would have to buy memory cards and stress about forgetting where we last put them. You can also say farewell to the “Device memory low” notifications that are common on competitors’ mobile devices. With the new advancements of cloud services and HUAWEI Mobile Cloud, you are given the opportunity to store your data and memories in a reliable and secure space where only you can access them.