MBOMBELA – Edumatics Edu Expo showcased four top school groups from Friday to Sunday at i’langa Mall. Prospective parents and pupils could explore the benefits offered by Edgeview Academy, Curro Academy Mbombela, Destiny College, and the Metropolitan group. The pandemic and shift to modernised methods of teaching make it essential for parents to investigate leading education providers and the technology they use to shape the future of teaching and learning. Sheldene Sander-Smit has been serving the sector for more than 15 years and now also arranges school EduExpos in Mbombela and all over South Africa through Edumatics. Her company, Business Data Communication, is the sole distributor of affordable and easy-to-use interactive classroom technology from Boxlight Mimio. These are portable interactive whiteboards, visualiser systems, and ICT solutions including educational content and generic lessons. “The technology provides schools a chance to step up their teaching game, without breaking the bank,” Sander-Smit said. To find out more about Edumatics or Business Data Communication, contact Sander-Smit at 082-859-1984 or email info.edumatics@gmail.com. ALSO READ: Penryn Prep grade two learners follow the spoor to adventure Edgeview Academy Edgeview Academy has been running for the past 12 years and offers schooling for grade eight to 12. It also provides the opportunity for matric rewrites. The academy received the best results for bachelors for 2019, and boasts a pass rate of above 80 per cent. A co-ed hostel is available for pupils who travel far.  Curro Academy Mbombela This is a new English medium school in the Mbombela area and currently takes in learners from three years to grade R. It is part of the Curro Group, which has been operating for 20 years. Other grades will be phased in next year, namely grades one to eight. There is currently a special limited offer for new enrolments. Contact the school for more details.  Destiny College Previously known as Advisor Progressive, Destiny College gained its new name four years ago and is situated in nature. The school has mainly boarders due to the pupils who come from the surrounding countries such as Mozambique, Swaziland, Namibia and generally all over South Africa as well. The classes are small, which enables a better student to teacher ratio. The school has grades eight to 12 and the matric pass rate is way above 80 per cent.  Metropolitan Group This is a group of schools with campuses in Mbombela, Barberton, Hazyview, White River and Swaziland. They accommodate the following grades: • Metropolitan main campus in White River: grade 00 to 12 • Barberton: grade 0 to 6 • Watershed (Mbombela): grade eight to 12 • Nelspruit Private Academy: grade seven to 12 • Metropolitan Academy: grade 00 to six • Hazyview Private College: grade 0 to 12 • Noah’s Ark Private School: grade 0 to 12. The Metropolitan main campus boasts a 93 per cent pass rate of the 364 grade 12s in 2019. It provides aftercare and affordable boarding facilities.  ALSO READ: Penryn College learner receives silver medal for Applications Olympiad