As a part of Mpumalanga Tourism Month that was launched on September 8 in the Lowveld National Botanical Garden, the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) announced the opening of Parks Week, which will take place from September 14 to 18. Tourism Month will include many initiatives, but this week specifically is an annual event aimed at encouraging residents to visit local nature reserves. Entry is free, and the intention is to create awareness and expose communities to their natural resources as well as instil the culture of travelling locally. ALSO READ: Fire breaks out at Letaba Rest Camp in KNP The following nature reserves will form part of Mpumalanga Parks Week: “With lockdown level 2 and leisure travel being open, the MTPA is excited that this opportunity will allow members of the public to come and explore the natural wonders of this province. The Covid-19 pandemic has had a crippling effect on the tourism sector and with this initiative, we look forward to welcoming visitors to come and rejuvenate themselves,” said Johannes Nobunga, chief executive officer of the agency. The free access into the selected nature reserves is strictly for day visitors and does not include accommodation or other tourism activities on offer there. The free access is also applicable to groups of not more than 20 people. “Accommodation is at the normal cost if people want to stay over. We trust that the public will take advantage of this opportunity to travel again and appreciate the wildlife and natural heritage in the province.” In order to be allowed free access, visitors will be required to present their South African identity documents or valid South African driver’s licences. The set terms and conditions for this duration will apply. ALSO READ: IN PHOTOS: 3D Archery in the Lowveld “We urge everyone not to miss out on this opportunity to travel again. We are ready to welcome you as our nature reserves are all compliant with the Covid-19 health and safety protocols. We appeal to our locals to comply with the regulations that have been put in place at all our reserves.” For more information on Mpumalanga Parks Week, contact Londiwe Ngwenya on 082-092-3913. For bookings, please contact the central reservations office on reservations@mtpa.co.za.