 Introduction GT construction was established in 2016 by two business partners Albert Oberholster and Chris Röhm, with our offices situated centrally in Rocky Drift Business Park, between Nelspruit and White River. With over 18 years of experience, GT Construction is seen as leaders in construction, from the Building of Residential Houses, Complexes as a whole, Schools, Hospitals, Clinics, Industrial, Retail, Civils, as well as individual smaller projects like painting, plastering, tiling, ceilings, roofs, joinery. Literally anything you can think of under the construction umbrella in Mpumalanga and surrounds.  Process of work In order to give our potential customers what they need, and guarantee that there is absolute satisfaction on completion we create the platform of individual and joint thinking in advance. When you put structured thinking into a process beforehand and make sure you contract the needs and desires properly, the risk of frustration and failure are lessened dramatically. It is no secret that within the COVID – 19 Pandemic we all experience the lock down in varied intensity.  We personally, and within the confined space of forced physical distancing, have emotions ranging from unrealistic positivity to unannounced panic, and this can all happen within a few minutes apart. Knowing that the world as we know it will never be the same Post – Covid19, we are approaching your needs as our customer differently and, yet just the same as we did in the past. Our deep routed values and ethics remain the corner posts of our behaviour and the manner in which we guide our actions and the behaviour of our staff. Customer needs In an attempt to determine whether GT Construction is in actual fact meeting the needs of customers, I went ahead and asked a few customers we have engaged with. Let’s pin it into words, in order to see how this feeds into what we offer:  Company motivation The heart of a company lies in the very fabric of the Leaders and both myself and Chris lead from the front and are able to “build the road as we are traveling it” with the prime focus on customer happiness and superlative quality of work. There is always passion and excitement at the onset of a project and we are able to meet the needs in the moment by accepting responsibility for our individual specialist fields. As said by Tannie Coba, I am able to “feel” the plan and allow my experience as a veteran contactor to kick in and conceptualise the request. Whereas Chris approaches it from the creative point of view of a Bronze Sculptor and Carpenter and is set on both the esthetical big picture, meticulous adherence to the original plan and attention to detail. Our two creative minds collaborate and dovetail the various focusses of design, budgets, timelines, and practical role out. We have built our company on the following fundamentals: Our HOPE for South Africa rests in a place of the awareness that we are indeed privileged to have the customer interaction that we do have. Not only are we supported by existing customers who add on to what we have already delivered, but we function to a large extent on the referrals and word of mouth recommendations. We are, at all times, thankful to our Creator for the ability to live our creative passion, to our families for their support, our suppliers and above all to YOU our customers. “Doing what you do when nobody is watching” is a true reflection of the work that is done behind the scenes in preparation, and also on site when there are deadlines to be met and curved balls like acts of nature or community unrest that bring work to a halt. Clear, honest communication is of paramount importance and GT Construction truly put their money where their mouths are. Creativity is a silent headspace that you as customer enter into when you set out to either a new build, revamp, renovation, extension or upgrade, and you do have to engage that space of exploration alone. With kindness and care we meet the customer where they are, and we take the picture in your head and convey it to paper, and ultimately to the snapshot in your photo album! We strive to execute with perfection, irrespective of the size of the request. We believe in leading from the front, and if we enter a place of uncertainty and challenge, we simply pave the road as we are traveling it. We value and empower our dedicated and professional staff members, as well as sub-contractors we might engage from time to time for specific projects. To GT Construction this is the essence of our PRE-Contracting, to determine customer needs and embrace the dreams whilst respecting the fact that this is a monetary investment on behalf of the customer. Contact with the customer as the process unfolds, is done at regular intervals with guiding questions as to “ticking the boxes” and assuring satisfaction. Time is spent in the wrapping up and hand over of the project, because this is where recognition is fed down to each staff member, sub-contractor and contributor to the end product. See our other division – Girelle Trading To close off we would like to reiterate that every new project is approached as a new challenge and the diversity within every projects’ different Engineering and Architecture makes it a constant learning curve as the process unfolds. Every project is different and brings with it its own challenges and moments of impossibility, but we are resilient and, as said, strive to execute with perfection.