 Covid Flight is an initiative set up by Felix Gosher, a commercial pilot from Gauteng. The members are mostly private helicopter and fixed-wing pilots, offering their services in various parts of the country. A group for the Lowveld area was formed shortly after the announcement of the extension of the current lockdown period, just before Easter. Charles Fuller, a helicopter pilot based on the East Rand, but spending lockdown together with his wife at their weekend home in Shandon Estate, was granted a permit to do mercy flights. His helicopter, a restored ex-French military Alouette, dating from the early sixties, was retrieved from its hanger at Rand Airport and flown to Mbombela.  Covid Flight bases in Johannesburg released funding to buy much-needed food for two old age homes in Waterval Boven and the first relief drop was made on the way from Gauteng. In its first week of operation, no less than four more of these mercy flights were made. One to a care centre in Hazyview, others to Lydenburg and Bushbuckridge. ALSO READ: Community Can Challenge reaches finish line on first door-to-door delivery Air deliveries are mainly protective and hygienic supplies, supported by ground vehicles hauling the bulk of the food supplies. Information leaflets with essential information about the prevention of the spreading of the Covid-19 virus, compiled, printed and provided by Hall & Sons were also distributed.  Hall & Sons was also the first local company to become involved by offering fresh produce, mainly avocados, as these are now in season. Other major farming operations have since come on board. The organisation strives to offer rapid response with a wide network to mobilise funding, as well as to order and collect food parcels and gather fresh produce. A need was identified on Thursday afternoon at a rural settlement near Acornhoek. Funding by two local companies was secured by that evening and more than 100 parcels were prepared overnight by Pick n Pay Hoedspruit. Over the past week the group of organisers, experts and helpers has grown, with numerous benefactors coming on board. These include Yvonne (Pinky) Phosa, a member of parliament and wife of the former provincial premier, Matthews Phosa, who has also pledged help and support, including funding.  ALSO READ: Man who ran 45 kilometres on his balcony puts his efforts towards a good cause Photos: Louise Meyer Photographers