 Mpumalanga police arrested six traffic officials aged between 28 and 43, for alleged corruption and defeating the ends of justice. This incident happened in Middelburg on April 1. According to a police report, on March 12, the traffic officers stopped a driver who was transporting schoolchildren in his bakkie. Read:Traffic officers caught under fire Instead of issuing him with a fine, they allegedly took the man’s driver’s licence and demanded money in order for it to be returned. The man then allegedly explained to the officials that he did not have money and he was reportedly told that he will never see his licence again unless he “paid” for it. The driver made arrangements to pay them at the end of March. When the day arrived, he contacted the officials and allegedly handed over the money. Also read:Misbehaving traffic officers to be brought to book</a Brig Leonard Hlathi, spokesperson for the SAPS, said members of the police were notified and followed up on the allegations. "The traffic officials were arrested shortly after being found in possession of the money which had allegedly been handed over as payment," he said. They appeared in the Middelburg Magistrate's Court on April 2 on charges of corruption and defeating the ends of justice. They were released on a warning and will appear again in the same court on July 8. Also read: Two traffic officers suspended for fraud and corruption SAPS provincial commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, has welcomed the arrest.
“As law enforcers in the province, we decided that we need to tackle corruption head-on without fear or favour, and we cannot allow rotten elements to exist within our ranks. If anyone is found to have been involved in any kind of corrupt activity, they must be rooted out as we are here to serve citizens, not victimise and take advantage oof them,” said Zuma. The public is encouraged to continuously report corrupt activities by calling 08600-10111 or SMSing 32211. The My SAPS app can also be used in this regard.