 Reaction times of drivers tested were significantly slower than someone who had used cannabis and five times worse than someone driving at the legal limit of alcohol consumption. The study found that reaction times at motorway speeds increased average stopping distances to between four and five car lengths. The study also found that drivers took their eyes off the road for as long as 16 seconds while driving (equivalent to a distance of more than 500 metres at 112 km/h), and using touch control resulted in reaction times that were even worse than texting while driving. ALSO READ: Preparations underway to reopen Malelane SUPERSPAR Commenting on the alarming findings, Neil Greig, policy and research director, IAM RoadSmart, said: “Driver distraction is estimated to be a factor in around a third of all road collisions in Europe each year. We are now calling on industry and government to openly test and approve such systems and develop consistent standards that genuinely help minimise driver distraction.” During the study, drivers completed a series of three drives on the same simulated test route to assess the level of impact of Android Auto and Apple CarPlay. On the first run, drivers did not interact with the system. On subsequent runs, drivers interacted with the system using voice control only and then using touch control only.
Both methods of control were found to significantly distract drivers, however, touchscreen control proved the more distracting of the two. ALSO READ: SANDF official dies in high speed chase While many drivers realised the system was causing a distraction and modified their behaviour by, for example, slowing down, performance was still adversely affected with drivers unable to maintain a constant distance to the vehicle in front, reacting more slowly to sudden occurrences and deviating outside of their lane. Neil added: “While we would like to see a review of these systems in the future, we would encourage owners of vehicles fitted with these systems to use them in the safest possible way, including setting everything up before starting a journey. Most participants in the study report they use touch rather than voice control in real-world driving. As the results clearly show, this is the most distracting, so if there is a need to use the systems while on the go, voice control is a far safer method. Source: Newspress