 Elize Joubert, CANSA CEO, said, “Cancer patients and survivors are among those at higher risk of serious illness from an infection because their immune systems are often weakened. “It’s important that we educate on what can be done to lower their risk for the virus, and on what to do if they should contract it. We also want them to know that they are not alone, despite the imminent 21-day lockdown announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa on March 23”. Cancer patients will continue to stay at the CANSA Care Homes all over the country with protective measures and strict infection procedures while the public hospitals are open and receiving patients.  ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR sends staff home after second confirmed Covid-19 case CANSA Care Homes cater for patients receiving cancer treatment and provide accommodation, transport and meals. In the other provinces, plans have been made for critical patients to be admitted full time at specific hospitals or treatment centres. CANSA’s TLC Lodges for children and families affected by cancer in Pretoria and Polokwane will also remain operating with protective measures and support via phone and online platforms. “CANSA staff and volunteers will also continue to support patients online through our website, social media support groups and platforms during the lockdown period.


ALSO READ: Covid-19’s domino effect on the informal economy means South Africans need to start saving CANSA will continue assisting stoma and ostomy patients with orders and deliveries that will be processed once a week on Thursdays. Patients and survivors can mail thavenga@cansa.org.za or stomapta@cansa.org.za or WhatsApp 078-942-9290.  ALSO READ: Watch: The #DontRushChallenge will get you active “Thank you to all our dedicated caregivers, nurses and medical staff who have, selflessly, continued to put our patients’ needs first regardless of personal risk at this time. We would not be able to carry out our unique service delivery offering if it were not for them – we are exceptionally grateful to have such a wonderful care team,” concluded Joubert.