 Mediclinic Nelspruit confirmed one of its nurses had tested positive for Covid-19. The nurse was tested on April 8, three days after working her last shift on April 5 at the facility. She received her test results on April 10. In response, Mediclinic Nelspruit acted swiftly to inform the Department of Health (DoH) and ensure that all contacts were immediately followed up, according to the NICD and DoH guidelines. A total of 19 healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses went into self-isolation. According to Dr Stefan Smuts, chief clinical officer of Mediclinic Southern Africa, “All of the healthcare workers identified as contacts have now completed their mandatory self-isolation period and have returned to work.” “The nurse in question has also recovered well, experiencing only mild symptoms of the virus. She will return to work once cleared by the Department of Health”. ALSO READ: Lowvelder with Italian roots donates masks to Mediclinic Smuts said they can “also confirm that the infection occurred outside the facility. As to date, there have been no positive Covid-19 patients admitted to Mediclinic Nelspruit”. “Mediclinic believes that the safety of our patients, staff and doctors is our number one priority; as a result, we have intensified both internal and external processes guiding our response.” “Mediclinic adheres to strict human resources policies and procedures to address healthcare worker safety and manage any exposed healthcare workers according to the guidelines of the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) and Department of Health.” ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Department of Health Covid-19 screening – here are the numbers “Infection prevention and control protocols are followed based on the guidelines of the NICD, National Department of Health Covid-19 Infection Prevention and Control and World Health Organization (WHO),” Smuts added. Robyn Baard, spokesperson for Mediclinic Nelspruit, requested visitors having to visit the hospital, to bring their own masks. She said they would not be allowed inside without a mask as keeping patients, doctors and other staff safe is a priority.