 Introduced in 2010, Mazda’s unique Kodo design philosophy and its ability to breathe vitality into a car have been the driving force behind the multiple award-winning styling of the current Mazda range. ALSO READ: Preparations underway to reopen Malelane SUPERSPAR Launched in 2019, the Mazda3 was the first vehicle to showcase the latest developments in the company’s ground-breaking Kodo design language – a more mature rendition targeting greater styling prestige through the elegance and rigor of a minimalist, less-is-more aesthetic inspired by the purest traditions of Japanese art and the beauty of space between objects. Mazda has enjoyed many successes at the World Car Awards, an annual contest adjudicated on by an 86-member jury of automotive journalists from 25 countries. The Mazda2 won overall in 2008, and in 2016 the current-generation MX-5 was the first car ever to win both the World Car of the Year award and a second category – the World Car Design of the Year award.  In South Africa, the line-up of the Mazda3 includes six derivatives in the hatch category, and six derivatives in the sedan category. A well-equipped vehicle right from the entry version, all Mazda3’s feature the 8,8-inch MAZDA CONNECT infotainment screen, giving you access to features like Apple CarplayT and Android AutoT. Also standard is an all-new three-way layout eight-speaker sound system from the Active model, and the BOSE 12-speaker layout from the Individual model. Other standard features such as the seven-inch TFT reconfigurable gauge cluster display, Bluetooth connectivity, remote keyless entry, push-button ignition, auto door lock, auto headlights and wipers, electronic parking brake, knee air bags and two USB audio ports, elevate the Mazda3 to premium status. Craig Roberts, managing director of Mazda Southern Africa, commented: “It is a fantastic achievement to win this highly coveted award in a category that faces competition from all sectors of the industry. Mazda designers are passionately working to express Japanese beauty and form in all Mazda vehicles. The Mazda3 is a youthful vehicle, it can also accommodate a family, and it is one of the most stylish cars in the segment – winning this award is proof of that.” ALSO READ: SANDF official dies in high speed chase