 The burglars also made away with the centre’s stock of face masks and sanitisers. “We received an urgent call for assistance from Soli Deo Gloria Care Centre in Hazyview,” said Dr André Hattingh of Pediatric Care Africa (PCA). “The Covid Flight group offered to help us deliver the medical supplies to Hazyview.” Earlier this week, Charles Fuller flew his Allouette II helicopter to PCA’s premises outside White River and landed on a terrace, guided in by Johan du Plessis of Kishugu Aviation. ALSO READ: The Covid Flight Fuller’s co-pilot was Janus Erasmus. The stock of medical supplies was loaded in the helicopter and it flew to the Numbi Airstrip behind Hotel Numbi, where Gerda Venter of Soli Deo Gloria and her team received it. At the same time, Hattingh delivered another 750 kilograms of food and other necessities to the centre with his bakkie. Venter and her team expressed their joy and thanks to the team of volunteers with the interesting mix of transport for their willingness to assist those in need. The residents of the centre were already experiencing a critical shortage of food. “The Covid Flight is a group of volunteers who fly urgent supplies to people in desperate need,” said Hattingh.  ALSO READ: Ghost does his bit for the community by offering free drawing class to kids on his YouTube channel “They use their own helicopters and fuel for these relief flights. They are absolutely awesome people, and this is an awesome initiative!” He said that this was the first time that PCA and the Covid Flight collaborated on a project. Hattingh said that by last Tuesday, PCA had already received 62 new requests for assistance from people in dire need of food or medical assistance. “We cannot keep up with the people in distress at this rate. The lockdown has put scores of people under financial stress and without assistance their situations will truly be dire. We are asking companies and members of the public to assist us in reaching our goal of collecting 30 tonnes of food and some toiletries for these people in need. Any food or monetary donations are very, very welcome,” Hattingh said. PCA can be reached by emailing info@pediatriccareafrica.org or calling 076-2295663.