 Werner Weber, FF+ provincial leader, expressed the view that the extension was necessary in order for South Africa to stop the spread of Covid-19. “The president had no choice. He had to extend the lockdown. He must, however, gradually loosen it in order not to ruin the economy,” he said. Weber said that Ramaphosa should identify areas in which the potential for the spread of the coronavirus was not high and ease up on lockdown regulations in those areas. “He needs to establish where these areas are, and which sectors of the economy are critically important, and release those,” he continued. ALSO READ: Preparations underway to reopen Malelane SUPERSPAR According to Weber, it is an inevitable that the country will fall into a recession as a result of the lockdown. “Hopefully the recession will be a short one because there are many people in big financial trouble who have nothing to eat,” Weber concluded. Phillip Minnaar, PR councillor for the DA, referred Lowvelder to a press release, which stated, “There is mounting support globally for a phased strategy and moving between different phases of restriction. “It would be imprudent to call for a complete easing of all restrictions relating to the current lockdown, as it would likely risk a sudden spike in infections.” According to the statement, under the current lockdown restrictions, South Africa may see an increase in the number of unemployed residents and many businesses, unable to sustain the financial losses brought about by the lockdown, would be forced to close their doors. “A phased strategy gives South Africa the flexibility to adapt to changing circumstances, and it gives people an incentive to comply with regulations,” the statement concluded. Collen Sedibe, provincial leader of the EFF, said that the party backed Ramaphosa’s decision to extend the lockdown as “an effective way of curbing the spread of the coronavirus”. He said that the party was aware of the financial implications of the extension, adding that little choice remained but to, “join hands and fight this pandemic as a collective”. ALSO READ: SANDF official dies in high speed chase “The EFF also takes the Covid-19 pandemic as very dangerous to the lives of all the people of South Africa, hence we emphasise that people must adhere to the regulations of the lockdown,” he said. Sedibe welcomed government initiatives to compensate SMMEs, informal traders and their employees affected by the lockdown.