 A curfew has been put in place from 20:00 to 05:00. Wearing a face cloth mask will be mandatory. You will be able to buy hot foods, but only for delivery. Moving to level 4 some regulations, such as the selling of tobacco products, will be eased in but the alcohol ban stays in place. Pictures for illustration purposes only All Covid-19 health and safety protocols must be followed at all times, including observance of guidelines for social distancing, sanitation and hygiene, and the use of appropriate personal protective equipment, like cloth face masks, as determined by the National Department of Health People may travel to perform and acquire services only where such services cannot be provided from the safety of one’s home. Pictures for illustration purposes only 1. Find out if your company falls under the newly imposed essential services at level 4. Find details here: Send an email to the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition (DTIC) on lockdownexemptions@thedtic.gov.za. Enterprises may call the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition (DTIC) on 080-000-6543 or 012-394-5560. 2. You can register your company on the online bizportal: Click here to visit the bizportal 3. After this you can download your certificate. It will also be emailed to you. This can be used as proof to trade as an essential business during lockdown. 4. As CEO or owner of the business you need to give your workers a letter with the official business stamp or logo with your signature to say that your staff members work for you and provide an essential service in your business. 5. All staff members must have this permit on them at all times as well as a photo identification document issued by Home Affairs such as an ID document. Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).