 He accumulated an error of only 146 seconds at the time checkpoints on the 596km route (241km on day one and 355km on day two). Mark, who had the second-best score on day one (behind three-time winner Gavin Walton) and best score on day two, is a lifelong motorcyclist, both as a commuter and competitor in all forms of two-wheel motorsport. This was only Mark’s third DJ Run, having finished 40th in 2018 and sixth last year. The 1935 Velocette MAC he rode is the same motorcycle on which his father, Barry, had been running a close second in the inaugural commemorative DJ Rally in 1970, when a timing gear stripped and he had to retire about 20km from the finish at City Deep in Johannesburg. Barry was also well known for winning the inaugural Roof of Africa in 1969 and following it up with another win in 1970, both times riding a Honda. His son, Mark, is now restoring the Honda he rode in 1970. Barry Broady, Mark’s father, with the Velocette he rode on the 1970 DJ Run.He was twice winner of the Roof of Africa(1969 and 1970) and was on thepodium several times on the DJ Run. This annual DJ Run celebrated the 50th anniversary of the staging of the first of these rallies that commemorated the original, annual Durban-Johannesburg road race for motorcycles, which took place between the two cities from 1913 until 1936 when the authorities banned this type of motor sport event due to safety concerns. The 2020 DJ Run which started from the Heidelberg Museum on Friday March 13, and finished at the Shongweni Equestrian Centre the following day, attracted an entry of 106 riders, with nine non-starters and 73 finishers. The finishing rate was still impressive considering the “youngest” competing motorcycle was 84 years old and the oldest was the centenarian ABC Sopwith of Peter Gillespie. Gillespie is a real fan of this little-known British motorcycle brand, which only produced motorcycles from 1914 to 1923. Gillespie’s 1920 machine, that he restored himself, using many specially made parts, finished a creditable 52nd. However, his teammate, 80-year-old Paul Button, of Britain, who is also an ABC owner and worldwide registrar of the marque, was forced to retire with a broken tappet adjuster. Button still managed to cover more than 400km on his loaned ABC and thoroughly enjoyed the DJ Run experience. Second overall this year was Ralph Pitchford on a 1936 BSA Blue Star with an error of 173 seconds. Pitchford, an experienced off-road racer and Dakar competitor, is a preparer of immaculate motorcycles and won the DJ in 2016. Third place was filled by Keegan Ward (32), who runs a tyre business in Randburg, and is another rider with fairly limited experience in regularity rallying on a motorcycle. His error was 188 seconds. A keen motorcyclist his whole life and son of Mike Ward, a regular DJ Run participant and winner of the 2004 event, Keegan has competed in only four DJ rallies, with the last time being 2018 when he finished 15th. He did much of the work restoring his 1936 Norton himself. He said his rally-navigating skills have benefited not only from advice from his father, Mike, but also from two other experienced rallyists, Stuart Cunninghame, and Martin Davis. This year’s event was certainly not easy for the big field, although the weather played along on day one and most of day two. The exception was a heavy squall of rain and hail that passed over the route on Saturday afternoon and affected the performance of several competitors, including drowning the electrics of some of the motorcycles. The secondary roads that make up most of the route were also rutted and potholed, while many speed humps also put a heavy strain on riders and their machines. On the second day they were in the saddle for almost 11 hours! The Binder family trio of father, Trevor, and his famous road-racing sons, Brad and Darryn, all qualified as finishers. Darryn (23) fared best, placing 43rd on a 1928 BMW R52, and collecting the award for the youngest rider to finish the event. Brad and Trevor working on bike. He had previously ridden the DJ on a 98cc Francis Barnett when he was 16 and not permitted to ride a larger capacity motorcycle. He was forced to retire after a number of punctures on that occasion. Binder family at the start His brother, former Moto3 world champion, and now a KTM rider in MotoGP, Brad, finished 54th on a 1935 Sunbeam. He had problems with a broken rear mudguard bracket that required lots of cable ties to try and secure it. He also had a bolt come loose in the clutch assembly. However, the big thing is that he finished, as did his father, Trevor, who came 44th on his 1925 Indian Scout. ALSO READ: A legend of a bakkie – meet ‘Roadrunner’ Six of the seven riders from outside South Africa also qualified as finishers: the Youngman trio from the United Kingdom, Dorian Radue from Australia, Paul Button from the UK, and Anthony Weber from Zambia, while Andy Kaindl, of Germany, was forced to withdraw at the end of day one. Samantha Anderson, who rode a 1918 Harley Davidson, the oldest motorcycle entered in the event, had to retire near the finish with a lack of spark for the 1 000cc V-twin engine. ALSO READ: BroadReach keeps a close watch on Covid-19 The results on the DJ Run are calculated on arrival times at various checkpoints on the route as the riders try to stick as closely as possible to the set speeds, with them being able to choose to run in one of three speed groups: 50, 60 or 70km/h. The arrival times at checkpoints were logged electronically by an instrument carried by the rider and downloaded at the end of each day. The rider with the lowest time penalty was the winner. ALSO READ: Mbombela resident doing his bit to make staying at home an experience The annual, international DJ Run is run under the auspices of the Vintage and Veteran Club of South Africa, and organised by a committee with members from several local classic motorcycle clubs under the leadership of clerk of the course, Larina MacGregor, who was doing this arduous task for the third consecutive year. 