Karri is a mobile payment application that allows parents to make quick payments to school According to Hoernle schools adopting the app is healthier, cleaner and safer for everyone He explained, “The money we are handling on a daily basis, be it cash, debit or credit cards, is filthy and just as likely to be passing on diseases and germs as physical contact with another person.” “With Karri, there is no need for a parent to come onto the school premises to use a card terminal; or for children to be moving around dirty money. Create your collection on Karri and do your part to help prevent the spread of germs,” he further explained. He noted that, the app will remove temptation for opportunists. He stated that sending money with a student to school endangers them. While the school receiving it, is vulnerable to criminals. ALSO READ: Ensnared dog saved by environmentalist in Hazyview He said, “The payment system allows schools to create collections online within minutes. Parents then simply download the Karri app, create a profile and make the payment, removing the need for the child to be responsible for cash and putting the school at risk of theft.” Hoernle confirmed with the app, schools become more efficient. He stated that, “Schools can also save hours of administration time, improve efficiency and provide transparency on financial reports. The Karri app not only provides a simple, secure gateway for parents to pay for school-related transactions; it also provides the school with a fully comprehensive financial management system. Schools can collect more for your fundraising events. Hoernle commented, “School can now create a variable donation style collection, allowing parents to donate however much they want to the cause. These collections are sure to raise significantly more due to the ease and convenience provided to the parent. He reassures that with the Karri app that users money is always secure ALSO READ:  Lefpa on standby during lockdown The app is a bank-backed product. This assures the security of the money received by a school. He confirms that Karri, “Provide a trustworthy service to parents and teachers alike”. For more information contact Karri on 021-300-1867 or email support@karri.co.za (021) 300-1867 or email support@karri.co.za