Jenny Gibbs, HOD of the Junior Preparatory, commented, “At Penryn we have been part of a journey of rich, intentional staff development, empowering teachers to embrace the use of technology in our teaching and learning and improving our offering over the past few years as we ensure we produce children who are future-fit. It is wonderful to bear the fruits of our endeavours as we put our knowledge into practice as we embark on our quest to offer teaching and learning across the divide!” The staff has been preparing the online classes to be a smooth transition back into lessons. ALSO READ: Tips on why schools need to go cashless Graham Roberts, Head of Penryn Prep, said in a press release, “Thankfully, we had the foresight to anticipate the inevitability of having to consider how we might be compelled to teach remotely and how to adjust our well-known methodology; alter our tack and to plot a different course, but still continue on the learning voyage to the educational destinations we desire for our children.” Penryn will follow its academic timetable, although online. They remind parents and learners to work according to a specific routine and follow the timetable. “Online classes will be held through Google Classrooms, hangouts and various online platforms, ensuring One and All can access the recorded and interactive work,” said Albert Pienaar, Penryn College Head. Additionally, Penryn alumni have offered to assist current matrics in a support group during this extraordinary time. The alumni have formed a support group to guide, support and encourage the matrics. An address from the Executive Head to Penryn families & learners watched here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5kba4-g0MY&feature=youtu.be The school’s Learners Executive Committee offered prayers and motivation. These can also be found on Penryn’s Facebook page. ALSO READ: No clothes for newborn babies in Kanyamazane clinic due to lockdown Exec Prayer: https://youtu.be/i04o5yT3z5E Exec message: https://youtu.be/iwvOIbFuSqA Tutorials have been provided for parents so they can learn how to use the various platforms.