 In its second round of dropping off donations, the Community Can Challenge partnered with Children In Distress (CID), to provide food to child-headed households in the Masoyi area. As part of the organisation, CID runs multiple family care centres where these children can usually receive food, but during the lockdown, this has been difficult in some areas. There was also some food delivered in the Hazyview area after the Can Challenge became aware of staff members from the Hlayisekani Nursing Home who needed help. After the home saw to it that the residents were cared for, funding simply wasn’t enough to help the staff as well. The Can Challenge stepped in to offer support. ALSO READ: Community Can Challenge reaches finish line on first door-to-door delivery Harshil Mitha, one of the driving forces behind the challenge, said this second round of drop-offs was especially difficult. “It was truly a tough day, seeing how real the situation is outside of our immediate communities.” These households vary in size, having anywhere between five and seven children in one house. The responsibility then usually befalls the eldest child to care for the rest. “It is an eye opener and makes you realise, regardless of your own personal circumstances, there is a lot to be grateful for. My heart truly sinks seeing people in such dire circumstances. Having a daughter myself, it’s hard to see what other children are having to endure,” he said.  Despite witnessing these hardships, Mitha said his heart truly warmed up seeing and experiencing the generosity of the business community and individuals across the world. “I believe as a community we were created to help one another and truly live out Ubuntu. Together we Can.” ALSO READ: 230km – Biokineticist will burn calories to motivate donations The Community Can Challenge specifically thanked Chris Rogers for donating mielies, Halls for donating avocados and Covid-19 information booklets, and the Breyl family for offering up their time and money to be of assistance.