 Doing a master’s degree in social media law is hard work. Passing her LLM Media Law Cum Laude was most certainly a highlight for Caxton Local Media legal advisor, Helene Eloff. Yesterday afternoon Eloff obtained her degree during a virtual graduation ceremony from Prof Tawana Kupe, vice-chancellor and principal of the University of Pretoria.  Eloff prepared an edited video with a background on her study topic, used the opportunity to thank those who supported her and then “handed” over to Prof Kupe to do the honours. She held a “watch party” on Facebook with many friends and family who joined her for the special occasion. Her parents, Gerhard and Gerda Eloff, joined in from Zambia where they live. ALSO READ: 11 Basics of social media law – part 1 Her career path started in 2013 when she obtained her LLB and a postgraduate Certificate in Legal Practice. In 2016 she was admitted as an attorney of the High Court but left legal practice to pursue a career in journalism. Soon her excellent work was rewarded when she won the Caxton Local Media Multimedia Journalist of The Year Award. “That moment motivated me to complete my studies which were halfway at the time. I could combine my love for journalism and my passion for all things legal.”  During the ceremony, Prof Kupe said students would never forget “graduating during the time of the Coronavirus – Covid-19”. He told graduates that these ceremonies are supposed to be a time of celebration after a long academic journey, but that Covid-19 has brought the world to a standstill. Eloff said, “I felt emotional about today as I have been looking forward to sharing the day with my family, especially since my parents weren’t able to attend my LLB graduation in 2013. We then made a deal: I would complete my LLM and they would share in my graduation.  “Yesterday morning, excitement took hold of me. I realised how significant this is: I am graduating in medial law virtually and sharing it online after a study focusing on social media law. It all felt so right. Making a contribution to South Africa’s research pool on the digitisation of society was a privilege. Being able to focus on the media industry and dedicate it to our country’s brave journalists made it even more special.” Eloff also had to postpone her wedding due to Covid-19, which was supposed to take place this Saturday.  ALSO READ: Clicklaw’s guide to the POPIA – what you need to know