 Dr Louise van Rhyn, CEO of Symphonia SA and the award-winning Partners for Possibility (PfP) initiative, indicated that this leaves about nine million children in dire need of food on a daily basis. Liz Mackintosh, who for many years managed the Uplands Outreach programme, established the African Schoolroom programme 12 years ago. The intention being to, among other things, place “the more adventurous” exchange teachers from Switzerland in rural schools. This said, Mackintosh “brought a new dynamic into these schools”. Once these teachers bridged the initial culture shock, it opened the minds of all involved to a complete new set of possibilities. This has, of course helped her to build a huge network of people and companies – international and locally – that are always willing to support various school projects. “It is demanding, at times frustrating, but ultimately fulfilling work. The differences these support programmes make in the lives of our children are so worthwhile. I just do what I can, because I can. And, for many, this support creates life-changing experiences and opportunities. It most certainly is a win-win,” said Mackintosh. ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR donates food due to Covid-19 closure To address the need for food parcels, and with some financial and logistical support from donors in Switzerland (Project South Africa) and locally, including the Rotary Club of White River and PfP, she buys food from the A1 Food Store (part of the BJ Group) in Mkhuhlu in Hazyview, that then also facilitates the packing and delivery to strategic points in the townships. Liz Mackintosh From there, school principals and teachers collect and deliver them to families in need. PfP has organised the necessary permits required for this. The food parcels cost about R400. They consist of beans, cooking oil, coffee creamer, tea, soup, fish, baked beans, maize meal, sugar, macaroni, juice and rice – enough to support a family of four for two weeks. ALSO READ: Renowned Lowveld artist creates painting in honour of medical workers These parcels are supplemented by food donations from Mantra Trading, Halls, and others. More than 1 000 families have benefited since deliveries started over the past weekend. And miracles are happening as more and more people are stepping forward to offer support, transport and more to create momentum for this project. “Thank you, thank you, thank you,” said Mackintosh. Should you wish to contribute to this effort, you can deliver food donations to Zannas at the Bagdad Centre in White River between 09:00 and 12:00. “The need out there is overwhelming and we need a collective effort to support children and people wherever we can. Do what you can because you can!” Mackintosh said. Enquiries
Liz Mackintosh at lizm@365@gmail.com or Santel van Zyl on 083-556-7913.