 This number dropped considerably in comparison with the same period last year. The province recorded 25 road deaths over Easter last year and this year’s figure is a 77 per cent decrease. ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR is stocked and ready The national lockdown, with the severe restrictions on travel, and the high police visibilty on the roads this year, contributed to the significant reduction.
Only ten sustained serious injuries, compared to 138 serious injuries last year. Between April 2 and 13, provincial traffic law enforcement officers stopped 18 629 vehicles at 14 roadblocks which were strategically spread across the province. The roads linking Mpumalanga with Gauteng, Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal, the Kingdom of eSwatini and Mozambique, were the primary focus areas for law enforcement agencies. The roadblocks yielded 14 arrests for offenses ranging from speeding and failure to produce documentation and the removal of 10 vehicles off the road. The Easter operations were conducted in collaboration with the SAPS, SANDF officials and other stakeholders. Gabisile Shabalala, the Mpumalanga MEC for safety, security and liaison, said, “Any loss of life or injury on the road is one too many and therefore deeply regrettable.” She stressed that government’s goal was to eradicate the carnage on our roads, adding that she believed this to be achievable with the cooperation of all stakeholders, especially motorists. “Motorists should not only drive well and obey the rules when they see traffic officers. Considerate and positive driver behaviour must become second nature to every motorist, so that needless loss of life is eliminated. We must use the road with great care and whether there are high traffic volumes or not, if we all follow the rules, there will be fewer deadly crashes.” Shabala added that law enforcement officers should show no mercy by arresting those disobeying the rules and extended her condolences to the familes of those who lost their lives on the road. ALSO READ: Mixed emotions about lockdown in KaNyamazane