 The school will be utilising Google Classroom, Hangouts and WhatsApp as learning and communication platforms. Graham Roberts, the prep head of academics, commented, “Our initial need was to gather information from the parents regarding their connection and device availability in the home, so that we can adapt what we offer to suit the needs of our learner community. We are concerned about the emotional well-being of each learner and family during this time, and believe that through good relationships, personal calls and regular two-way feedback, we can offer excellence in this new journey upon which we are all embarking.”  Penryn senior prep learners have also been using Google Classroom. The learners will be requested to do activities at home in all subjects, with skills-based, research and integrated study learning. Roberts explained, “With no prior warning before the hasty close of school, the teachers have been hard at work looking for suitable materials to use and creative ways to present these. Grade four to seven scholars will be able to practise their creative, research and problem-solving abilities as they attack the activities that will be put before them.” ALSO READ: Get a weekly rhino update with Care For Wild The school staff will meet face-to-face with learners who need advice regularly. The sport departments of the school will send out daily physical challenges to learners to promote optimal learning. “There will also be opportunities where the whole class gets together, as our staff have been doing, to greet, discuss matters of heart, health, mind and home in a virtual way,” he added. The foundation phase learners will provide evidence of activities done at home through videos, photos and voice recordings. Roberts noted, “They too will have online meets with their teachers, who will have to send virtual hugs and high fives for all that will be accomplished.” The preschoolers will also be kept busy, with six specialised teachers provided to them. ALSO READ: Q&A: SAAF provides facts about Gripen flight over Mbombela “A preschool child, developmentally, needs to play to learn and, being totally mindful that our preschoolers should not have lots of screen time, we will be sending learning and play activities and ideas for literacy, numeracy and gross and fine motor skills that will involve dressing up, speaking, listening and doing practical home-based activities that will bring a smile to their faces,” Roberts concluded.