 In March this year, amid the outbreak of the Covid-19 coronavirus, the South African restaurant group, Tindlovu, launched the Tindlovu Cares initiative. “This project was initiated for the purpose of spreading awareness throughout our group, to not only our amazing staff, but also to our loyal patrons,” said Jo-Anne White, CEO of the Tindlovu Group. ALSO READ: Church feeds the needy in Msholozi “Leading up to the current national lockdown came an opportunity to lend a helping hand to our local communities, where we identified a serious need for food and other essentials. “As part of the Tindlovu Cares drive, our refrigerated trucks were commissioned to collect the substantial amount of perishable food from our restaurants which we stocked up on for the holiday season, unaware that a national lockdown would be announced,” White said. “We immediately knew we could not let this stock go to waste and sent the vehicle to all our branches in the Kruger National Park as well as to our restaurant, Tindlovu at the Gardens in Mbombela.” All consumable items were loaded and donated to Children in Distress, a registered NGO that cares for more than 3 000 child-headed homes. Deliveries were also made to communities in and around the Manna Church in Rocky Drift as well as an NGO in Phalaborwa. ALSO READ: Local Gospel Skouspel raises funds for Children in Distress “We would like to appeal to our local communities to assist organisations such as these, as well as any individuals who are in desperate need of assistance,” said White. “As a restaurant group, we are in a serious predicament with the lockdown as we have 300 staff in our employment with no income during this time. We, however, remain positive and believe in God’s great intervention during these trying times,” she concluded. In the interim, the team is making the best of the situation by refreshing and developing new menus, which will roll out after lockdown. Tindlovu was opened in 2012 with origins in the Kruger Park, but later expanded into Mbombela, Pretoria, and Cape Town.