 The BroadReach Group has partnered with the Department of Health to roll out a Covid-19 community screening mobile app called Vantage. Vantage is an intelligent operating system for both governmental and non-governmental bodies to more effectively implement and manage large-scale healthcare programmes. It is designed to engage users on their terms, guiding leaders to make the right decisions, using analytics that go far beyond dashboards to generate truly powerful recommendations in real-time. The Department of Health has named the Vantage app Siyayinqoba Sisonke: “Together we will conquer”. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga premier launches Covid-19 Command Centre and tracking application The BroadReach Group is a group of three distinct social-impact businesses. For nearly two decades, spanning over 20 countries, they have collaborated with governments, multinational health organisations, donors and private sector companies to affect healthcare reform and solve some of the world’s biggest health challenges. “We stand side by side with our colleagues in Mpumalanga to control and conquer Covid-19. Vantage will aid the provincial leadership with real-time data for making key decisions during these critical times,” said Chris LeGrand, BroadReach Group CEO. “It is all about having the right information at the right time, to take the right action.” The Vantage platform is underpinned by Microsoft’s suite of applications and is hosted on the Microsoft Azure Cloud that enables easy integration with a range of digital tools. ALSO WATCH: Skukuza golf course gets some new ‘players’ Vantage has also been used in KwaZulu-Natal in the fight against HIV. There, it has helped the district of Ugu to reach their UNAIDS (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS) 90-90-90 HIV goals, where 90 per cent of people living with HIV know their status, 90 per cent receive sustained antiretroviral therapy, and 90 per cent achieve viral suppression. KwaZulu-Natal uses Vantage to manage the Covid-19 outbreak, too.  