 MBOMBELA – While the economy will most certainly suffer the worst impact from the 21-day lockdown, there is no doubt that learners will also bear the brunt of the self-isolation period. This reality has had enterprising teachers from a number of Lowveld schools exploring innovative ways to keep the pupils abreast of the curriculum – all while adhering to the lockdown rules. For Louise Fullard, Afrikaans teacher and head of department (HOD) at Hoërskool Bergvlam, her foray into information and communications technology (ICT) started well over a year ago. “My journey started with the National Teaching Awards, where I roped in the services of specialists after being invited to an ICT indaba. Senzo Mncube, an ICT specialist from Swaziland, gave me an introduction to the learning management system which we are currently using,” she said.  ALSO READ: Covid-19’s domino effect on the informal economy means South Africans need to start saving After negotiating her way around the technical maze, Fullard started an investigation into these systems and compared them to see which one is the best worldwide. With virtually no assistance, except for one person recommended by Ncube, she started building a hosting site and her efforts were rewarded in the first week of school this year. “I was invited to a Moodle workshop in Badplaas by the Department of Basic Education (DBE) where I realised that the department had adopted it as a learning management system.” Although invited as a courtesy, Fullard saw the potential in the system and despite encountering a host of technical issues, such as the hosting crashing, she persevered.

ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR sends staff home after second confirmed Covid-19 case “I searched a hosting site that would not crash because we needed to accommodate about 1 000 children. I built up a network of contacts at the department and was introduced to the deputy director for curriculum innovation and e-learning, Sechaba Pule, at a conference in Emalahleni three weeks ago. “He is responsible for the launch and roll-out of the DBE Moodle LMS e-learning platform nationally.” It turned out to be a fortuitous meeting for the dedicated teacher when Pule agreed to host Moodle on the DBE website. According to Fullard, three days later, he provided log-in credentials, before President Ramaphosa’s announcement that South Africa would go into lockdown.  ALSO READ: CANSA will not let Covid-19 stop fight against cancer The school principal, Deon Visser, agreed that training would be provided to the other teachers at the school and the first phase of the system was rolled out at Hoërskool Bergvlam. “The interest has been overwhelming. It really is quite user-friendly and all the children need is a device on which to download the app and they can then work offline from there. This means that data consumption is quite low, making it an affordable learning management system that everyone can access.” According to Fullard, the system allows teachers to interact with learners by way of tutorial videos, audio files, quizzes, online tests and a host of other resources essential to teaching and learning. The school’s information technology HOD, Antoinette Kuperus, jumped on board and the pair, along with other teachers, are sharing the workload to make sure that learning and teaching continue during the lockdown. ALSO READ: President Cyril Ramaphosa answers some pressing questions in a media briefing in Johannesburg “It is a wonderful system because, once a child logs in, they can only see the subjects they are registered for and can view their progress. The dashboard helps teachers identify areas of development and allows the teacher to view the learners’ online activity in order to provide the necessary encouragement and support,” she added.