 This morning was the third time that the store was sanitised with a chlorine-based product. Earlier in the week the trolleys and baskets were thoroughly sanitised, as was the rest of the store. Ehlanzeni District Municipality witnessed the procedure and also commended owner, Lex Hollmann, for the actions he took during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We’ve seen the effort that the store has put in to keep its customers safe. With everything going on, it is evident that is not just about the profit,” said Arthur Banyina, environmental health practitioner for Ehlanzeni District Municipality. Hollmann has been giving the public daily updates about the situation through videos on YouTube. ALSO READ: Mbombela community embrace the SPAR Get Real Covid Challenge In his latest video he mentioned that the two weeks have given him time to think about changes and improvements. “We’ve changed the way we roster our staff. We have broken our team up into two teams. One team will work seven days on and the second team will then be on, so it’s seven days on and seven days off. They will work the full shift then.” Hollmann also mentioned this morning that there will be extra pressure once the store reopens, due to it being month-end, but he is prepared for this. “We also worked out a system at the front end where we can put more cashiers on duty and handle more customers through the store so that we can clear the store quicker, but still maintain our social distancing.” Hollmann went on to explain the next steps in getting the store ready for the reopening by receiving all the goods on Monday and Tuesday morning. “The employees from Tops will be doing the receiving, so that none of our existing staff from the store will be doing that. When the butchery staff arrive on the 21st they will be able to immediately start cutting and stocking the shelves. That will take a little while to get started but I guess it will take a day or two to get up and running.” See the video of the sanitising process below.  ALSO READ: Community Can Challenge reaches finish line on first door-to-door delivery