 Mpumalanga News spoke to some mothers who shared what they had been up to with their little ones. This is what they had to say: • Mpumi Mbethe The week has been one long month. We are all navigating through uncertain grounds with heightened anxiety. Our children are just as confused, if not more so than us. They can sense the panic and fear in the adults but, sadly, they are more vulnerable to emotional abuse or neglect during this time. If you go online, you will find many ideas on what other parents are doing to keep their children busy. The first thing is to set up some sort of routine for your family. Children’s anxiety increases when they cannot predict the day’s events. Ever noticed how many times they ask, “Where are we going?”, “Where are you going?”, or “When are you coming back?” A routine will help them cope with some of this. My daughters are aged four and nine. The younger one wakes up earlier, at the crack of dawn, the older sister waits for the sun to shine. Breakfast is ready around the same time every day. The girls need to brush their teeth, wash their faces, change out of their pyjamas and dress before they can eat. To monitor the amount of snacking, which can easily get out of control and develop emotional eating habits, they have a basket with a variety of things to nibble on between meals throughout the day. I prepare the meals the night before. This once again helps me to keep track of what I am feeding my kids. It also allows me to plan and budget my grocery needs when I go shopping. My girls are used to drinking water, but these days – due to the lack of outdoor play – I find myself having to remind them frequently to drink water. I fill up their water bottles and have water breaks in-between activities to ensure that they stay hydrated. I try to stick to the same mealtimes during the day, still giving the kids some level of predictability, which gives them some sense of stability in these uncertain times. Activities: Depending on where you stay, you might not have the luxury of space. We are confined to a small flat, so we have board games that we can play together for an hour or so a day. My daughters’ school sent us some workbooks to keep the kids busy. We have dedicated two hours daily for some home-schooling. You can look through your children’s school books and go over some of what they had covered in the first term. ALSO READ: Illegal connection costs soldier his fingers There are some age-appropriate school activities online as well. I also have some play dough and paint that the kids use to entertain themselves. We have limited screen time (TV, tablet, YouTube), that encourages the kids to just to play by themselves. This stimulates their imagination. We make the most of our balcony, skipping rope and blowing bubbles. If you are fortunate enough to have a garden, let the kids go and run outside or kick a ball for some physical exercise. We read books together, but the girls can also colour in or read by themselves. I set time limits for these because my four-year-old can play the same game over and over for hours on end. I always end a game with a treat as a reward. This can also be a time for us to rest. Self care: We can have all the ideas and read all the suggestions, but each family is unique and not all these ideas may work for you. The most important thing that we can do for our children is to take care of our own emotional wellbeing. As they often say during the safety advice on airplanes, you cannot help little ones until you have your oxygen mask on. You cannot pour from an empty cup, so keep your cup full with positivity and love. Be patient with the little ones and speak with kindness. This too shall pass, but the emotional scars that it might cause us to leave in their little hearts can be life-changing. • Sphiwe Ngelo: This period has been tough so far, but my daughter is adapting to the routine of staying home. They were given information about Covid-19 at school, which I think made it easy for her to understand why we have a lockdown, plus she loves channel 404 on DStv. We keep ourselves busy for her not to feel bored. We have a list of activities to do. This includes games such as hide-and-seek, treasure hunting, dancing and exercising. The school gave them activities, and she has about four hours a day to do her schoolwork, then it is time for our activities. It is important for parents to listen to their children and know what they like, dislike or fear. Allow them to share what they know about the virus and always teach them about personal hygiene. Do not forget to monitor their movements in the house. • Hlobile Nkumane: I keep them busy with their schoolwork and have created a few games. We also exercise, because I prefer them having less time for television. We should try to bond with our kids, because with our hectic schedules, we do not spend as much time with them, so now is the right time. Avoid giving them unhealthy food and let them do house chores. • Ahisha Hlophe: I have built a little corner in the TV room for my daughter with all her toys and a play mat. It is easier for tidying up and having a mess in only one place. Fortunately for her, her grandmother bought her a bike, so on other days, we learn how to ride it in the backyard. I also bought her some new colouring books that are different from the ones she had. These ones are the ones where you have to connect the dots; this is a good hand-eye coordination skill that I am trying to develop. She must try and colour within the borders of the lines she has drawn. We listen to music and do some nursery rhymes. We are currently learning the national anthem, even though it is taking longer than usual. Because I am a studying mom, I allow her to watch YouTube videos on my phone when I have to get back to the books. It is the best way of keeping her in one place and quiet without bothering me. We do not do everything on the same day. What we do not do today, we do tomorrow; but we definitely sing and dance on a daily basis. I also use incidental learning as an opportunity to teach good manners and basic life skills: like always, washing hands after using the toilet or playing with the dog, saying thank you after receiving food or snacks, praying before we eat and sleep. ALSO READ: First week of lockdown shows decrease in crime, according to Hi-Tech