 Through their generous contributions, these above-mentioned companies and a number of local prominent individuals, are continuously providing much needed social relief to destitute families by donating food parcels. ALSO READ: Mixed emotions about lockdown in KaNyamazane These good Samaritans intend on reaching as many people as possible during this period. On Wednesday, Buscor donated 200 food parcels to communities within the White-Hazy area. “We actually began yesterday (Tuesday) where we distributed a number of food packs to home-based care centres and today alone we managed to reach 200 more families. Nothing pleases us more than to lend a helping hand we can,” said Buscor executive chairperson, Nora Fakude-Nkuna. “We will continue to work with all stakeholders involved in ensuring that the vulnerable are taken care of during this difficult time. It is worth mentioning that if we continue working together, we will win the war against poverty, while at the same time fighting the spread of coronavirus,” she continued.  The recent outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has since forced the country into a lockdown, has left ordinary citizens, especially those coming from disadvantaged backgrounds, stranded and without basic needs such as food and through this initiative these good Samaritans are able to lend a helping hand feeding thousands of destitute families.  Also throwing their weight behind this initiative, Halls’ Leigh Green said, “We are using funds from Covid Flight and our sponsors to help feed people that are identified by the Department of Social Development as being in need. We have set up central distribution or collection points for supplies. This is going to be an ongoing project and we will be supplying various areas as they become identified”. She said that the food packs are made to sustain a family of six for a period of two weeks. “These are very nutritious packs. And on top of this, we are putting in booklets translated to SiSwati and Sotho, containing information about coronavirus and how the lockdown works,” she continued. “We would like to invite members of the public who would like to be part of this initiative to feel free and join by either making monetary or food donations. If we get cash donations, we get the food packs packaged in White River and delivered to our facility.”  “They stay there for a short space of time and Buscor takes the already packed packs in their buses and transports them to distribution points in the areas that have been identified. The buses are escorted by the police to enforce and maintain law and order.” ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR is stocked and ready “Moreover, Buscor transports the people who have been identified to collection points, keeping in line with the legislation and all the requirements of the lockdown,” explained Green.