 On Monday evening, Crocodile Toastmasters club held their first online meeting, via the Zoom platform, due to the lockdown. A total of 11 participants joined in from their living rooms. The theme of the meeting was “Nobody asked me but…” The vice president of public relations, Zani Barrish, explained that the local Toastmasters club decided to use Zoom as their virtual platform as it allowed for screen sharing, which was vital for members who used presentations during their prepared speeches. “In March, we held our International Club contest via Skype and even though it was a great success, we wanted to explore alternative online meeting platforms.” A typical club meeting would have various prepared speeches, toasts and also the opportunity for impromptu speaking. One of the newer members, Carlo da Cunha, presented a 5-minute prepared speech titled “The Secrets of the World”. The speech was an opportunity for him to apply constructive feedback given by an evaluator of his previous speech.  ALSO READ: GRIP services are still available to Nelspruit residents Tina Baer made the most of the Zoom platform’s screen sharing when she presented her prepared speech, “To Powerpoint or not to Powerpoint”. Then it was time for everyone’s favourite part of the evening, speaking off the cuff, known in Toastmasters terms as “impromptu speaking”. Carlo da Cunha led this part as the Table Topics master.  “Table topics is the most challenging part of Toastmasters, as it challenges you to think on your feet and apply everything you have learned from your Toastmasters experience,” said Da Cunha. Da Cunha asked for three volunteers, who then had to speak for 3 minutes on topics related to the nationwide lockdown. The president of Crocodile Toastmasters Club, Martin Tobias, who put together the evening’s agenda, expressed that this was “an exciting new way to hold meetings”.  ALSO READ: Local NGOs join forces to provide for Mbombela communities Nikki Quinn (DTM), the district director of Toastmasters Southern Africa, congratulated Nelspruit Toastmasters club on their first virtual meeting. She appealed to all Toastmasters clubs to also take the initiative and meet in a virtual space. “This is a great opportunity to attract guests and visitors who may not have been able to make previous meetings. We are asking clubs to invite sadctoastmasters@gmail.com, including the Zoom details, so that there is a central place where to find online meetings.” Distinguished Toastmaster Jonathan Silverberg, who is the division director, also gave the club a virtual high five. “You guys are streets ahead with online meetings,” he said. For more information about the Nelspruit Toastmasters Club, you can follow them on Facebook.