 The ripples from those thunderous early races are still felt today, as evidenced by this incredible BMW racer. It comes from classic race bike aficionado Scott Kolb, who is based just north of New York City. Scott had a theory: “An air cooled BMW engine in a sweet chassis, with the right rider, just might beat up on modern sportbikes at local track days.” He set out to build a 140kg, 82 horsepower track bike. Influenced by the writings of Tony Foale and the race bikes of Chris Hodgson, Scott decided to build a homage to the great Daytona BoTT racers. So he pulled the engine from his 1976 R90/6 road bike and put the rest of the machine on eBay to help pay for parts. ALSO READ: SANDF official dies in high speed chase Fortunately, he had a client with the same vision. And like Scott, the client works in the high-end architectural field, and he is a hands-off kinda guy. “We’ve both seen enough clients ruin great design by diluting the original vision,” said Scott. “The best projects come from a consistent and pure design idea. To that end, he offered no commentary – not even about colour. But he did say ‘The bike needs to fit me,’ and left it at that. He’s 6’4 and weighs 109kg, so I made a bike to measure.”  Like a good suit, this BMW fits him to a tee. For starters, both the wheelbase and the ergonomic triangle pegs to bars to seat are 5% bigger than the average production bike. This is second nature for Scott, because the many chassis he has built over the last 20 years have a strict focus on function while being mindful of the need for visual flow. Scott knew that the target weight figure would require carbon wheels from Rotobox and Öhlins R&T suspension front and back. The carbon wheel is only available for the BMW R nineT, which prompted Scott to use other R nineT parts like the rearsets, levers, blinkers, mirrors, and a license plate carrier from Rizoma. “Rizoma uses surface machining on many of their parts, which shows in the machining flow lines left behind by the ball mill cutter. I love this look: it adds a little texture for a good feel under your glove, plays with light, and most importantly shows the thought process of the CNC programmer giving the parts a human touch.” The engine has all the classic go-fast bits offered in the mid 80s by Chris Hodgson’s CC Products outfit (now morphed into San Jose BMW). The heads are dual-plugged, with larger valves and porting and flowing. There is a lightened and balanced flywheel, a performance clutch, and a crank dynamically balanced by Falicon. Displacement has been bumped up to 1000cc using the well-known Siebenrock big bore kit.  “A 200-section rear tire was completely unnecessary, but I couldn’t resist!” said Scott. This required a one-off swingarm with extra offset, and a lot of machining to get the R nineT rear drive to mate up to an airhead transmission. The Brembo calipers are from a BMW S1000R, matched to Brembo master cylinders, and the clutch is a hydraulic setup from SWT-Sports in Germany.
The 4130 chromoly tube chassis is based on the famous ‘Team Incomplete Boxer’ owned by photographer Gregor Halenda, but goes one better. It includes a similar motor mount that attaches to the top of the engine block, and eliminates the cradle downtubes. “This visually frees up the wonderful cast block that we all love,” said Scott, “but the real benefit is quicker lap times.”  The powder-coated tubing is a thing of beauty, and the ‘one better’ part is a rear billet mounting block to eliminate the tubes reaching to the bottom rear of the engine block. “While we were at it, we realised we could isolate the forces of the rear swingarm from the front end by making the swingarm pivot in its own subframe.” The bodywork was styled in-house. “It’s simple shapes, found by laying lines over photos of the rolling chassis,” said Scott. “The actual shapes were formed by sculpting foam, and then molds were made.”  The fairing and seat unit were were laid up in carbon fiber, with the outer layer being a 3oz twill weave. (“I like how the asymmetrical weave gets the compound curves to really pop.”) The tank was hammered out of .062 aluminum, and is finished with a Rizoma fuel cap. The technology may be modern, but the body finishes have a hint of retro style. “I love 70s graphic design,” said Scott. “Primary color schemes were everywhere when I was a kid, and seem to influence my company’s aesthetic choices.” “A pure cyan is used on my company logo, and always seems to make it into our race bikes. Throw in the Öhlins gold and Rizoma’s red accents, and you have a bike ready for the full primary color treatment which lead to the red stripe down the center of the body, splitting the carbon and aluminum.” The electronics are ultra modern, with a Motogadget m.unit control box at the center, taking signals from discreet m.buttons and a keyless ignition system. “The keyless receiver is hidden in the carbon fiber seat unit, along with all of the electronics,” Scott revealed. There is a new ignition module too, from Euro MotoElectrics. ALSO READ: Preparations underway to reopen Malelane SUPERSPAR Once he gets the bike back, it will be fettled and tuned for the track, and ready for informal battles with more modern sportbikes. It will be intriguing to see how it fares. Source: Bike Exif / Chris Huntershare / Pictures by Gregor Halenda