 For 2020, Toyota has bestowed the revered Fortuner with a host of exterior additions to create the latest iteration – the new Fortuner Epic. Two variants of Epic are on offer, both based on the 2.8-litre GD-6 derivatives: the standard Fortuner Epic and Fortuner Epic Black. As the name implies, the Epic Black utilises black accents to up the ante visually. The Epic package will be applied to 100 per cent of Fortuner 2,8 models, thereby offering customers enhanced value. ALSO READ: Mixed emotions about lockdown in KaNyamazane The exterior (and utility) has been enhanced with the fitment of a branded nudge bar and tow bar. Epic Black models feature a bi-tone design with black roof, black roof rails, black side-view mirrors and unique, all-black 18-inch alloy wheels. These high-contrast elements are exclusively combined with Glacier White paintwork on the Epic Black, to create a bespoke model that is certain to make an impression on both bush and boulevard clientele. Epic variants can also be had in Chromium Silver, Graphite Grey or Avant-Garde Bronze. A touch of class is added with metal scuff plates and an Epic-branded carpet set. The usual Fortuner luxuries apply, such as the leather interior and soft-touch dashboard trim. The interior layout remains as in the standard model, with elevated second and fold-up third row seating.  The usual array of 2,8 Fortuner specification items apply, including dual-zone climate control, smart entry and push start, touchscreen infotainment system with navigation, reverse camera, TFT Multi-Information Display (MID), blue Optitron instrumentation, cruise control, steering switches, power-adjustable driver seat and power back door. All Fortuner models are equipped with ABS, TRC, VSC, BAS, EBD and Hill Start Assist (HAC). The four-wheel drive models additionally feature Toyota’s A-TRAC off-road traction-control logic and Downhill Assist Control (DAC), to make navigating obstacles a breeze. On-the-fly selectable 2WD/4WD/4WD Lo modes further add to overlanding convenience. Pricing starts at R660 000.
The 2.4 GD-6 and 2.7 VVTi Fortuner models continue unaltered.
The 4.0 V6 model has been discontinued.
The manual-transmission Fortuner models have been removed from the line-up. ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR is stocked and ready All Fortuner models are sold with a 6-service/90 000 km service plan and 3-year/100 000 km warranty. The service interval for the diesel models is 10 000 km, while the petrol model is set at 15 000 km. Customers can also choose from a variety of service plan extensions at their local dealer.