 The vehicle is the top variant of the XPANDER line-up, which enables users to drive through a wide variety of terrains with confidence, yet without compromising on roominess and the comfort that MPVs offer. ALSO READ: Mixed emotions about lockdown in KaNyamazane Dynamic exterior design The new face features the latest version of MMC’s trademark Dynamic Shield with a geometric design, which portrays the balance between dynamism and power. The robust and protective lower bumper ‘skid plate’ design further emphasises an SUV image. Adaptive lights provide better visibility, a wider lighting range and a high-class look. The large front fog lamps integrated into the bumper are LED too, creating a tougher and stronger feeling of mobility.  To give a wider stance and sense of stability, the XPANDER CROSS is 50mm wider than the standard model. The characteristic SUV-style black wide wheel arches, door garnishes, and larger-profile tires with 17-inch alloy wheels add a sense of protection and emphasise the strong SUV style. It also comes with silver coloured roof rails for extra loading capacity. At the rear, a piano black tailgate garnish underneath the rear window and a larger skid plate on the lower part of the bumper enhances a tough image. Driver comfort is leading in its class thanks to the top class stability offered by XPANDER CROSS, which boasts best-in-class ground clearance of 225mm, raised by 20mm over the standard XPANDER, to provide better ability on rougher or flooded roads, and also higher seating position with clear visibility for the driver. Power for the XPANDER CROSS is provided by MMC’s latest 1.5-liter petrol engine with auto and manual transmission options.  It is not only the engine which has been optimised to ensure the XPANDER CROSS offers a sense of quality and refinement. In fact, the new model is the quietest in its class, thanks to high-performance sound absorbing and vibration blocking material. “Mitsubishi Motors South Africa started with the homologation process in preparation of the imminent launch of this vehicle in SA,” said Nic Campbell, general manager of Mitsubishi Motors South Africa. Not dismissing the functional aspect of a family vehicle, the Japanese “Omotenashi” – a meticulous attention to detail for every passenger – is designed throughout the cabin. XPANDER CROSS is spacious with the capability to carry seven people comfortably with best-in-class spacious interior and easy passenger entry and exit.  Three passengers can sit comfortably on the wide second row seat and the vehicle also adopts a tumbling system for folding the second row seats to make access to the back row easier. The seatbacks in the second row (60:40 split) and third row (50:50 split) can be folded down with a simple operation to arrange the seats and luggage in various combinations. For really large loads, the second and third row seats can be folded down to create a large flat storage area without bumps or gaps. ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR is stocked and ready For added practicality, the armrest in second row can be folded down to carry both loads and passengers at the same time – unique in the class. Even with seven occupants taking up all of the seats, the XPANDER CROSS still has enough luggage space to hold a standard stroller. Numerous cubby holes and compartments ensure the family’s belongings are kept safe and secure.