 International Tekkie Tax Day is around the corner, to be celebrated on Friday May 29. Maria Scholtz, CANSA’s Head of Sustainability says, “After the Covid-19 national lockdown, this will be a way that everyone can help. By supporting Tekkie Tax, however, you can take action and order now. “CANSA relies on funds raised to enable us to continue educating communities about the importance of cancer screening and lowering cancer risk. We believe that early detection is key, in order to diagnose cancer in its initial stages for a better treatment outcome.” View the reach of CANSA’s screening and educational health on https://www.cansa.org.za/how-your-gift-helps-fight-cancer/ or https://www.cansa.org.za/reduce-your-cancer-risk/. ALSO READ: “Carnival of Hope” celebrated for 12 hours at the CANSA RFL Mbombela Participating in International Tekkie Tax Day is easy: 1. Make the circle bigger with the new “One for All and All for One” sticker – R10
2. Choose the education badge to support CANSA – R10
3. Make your tekkies proud and lace them up with a set of the uniquely branded Tekkie Tax shoelaces – R40 plus sticker
4. Get your 2020 campaign T-shirt – available in denim blue and light grey – R100 adults or R80 kids Now you’re ready for National Tekkie Tax Day! Tekkie Tax order forms may be requested from Monique Van Der Westhuizen, Lowveld Community Mobiliser, at mvdwesthuizen@cansa.org.za. “We hope the public will join hands by challenging their friends to participate, and proudly wearing stickers, badges and takkies on May 29. Join the fun and support CANSA!” Scholtz concludes. Tekkie Tax is fast becoming SA’s most significant fundraising campaign for more than 256 local welfare organisations. The campaign started off in 2013 and, since its inception, Tekkie Tax has already raised almost R47,8 million. The national non-profit organisations are various SPCA societies and other animal protection organisations; SAVF, Families SA, Lifeline SA, various child welfare and other child protection organisations, Eplilepsy SA, Down Syndrome SA, and CANSA. For more information, please visit the Tekkie Tax website. ALSO READ: Community run in Mbombela shows solidarity with CANSA