 Thanks to SANParks, nature enthusiasts can better endure the lockdown as sightings in the park are posted on Twitter. On the morning of Friday, 24 April, African Wild Dogs were spotted along the Pretoriuskop road. This endangered species with its distinctive brown and caramel fur, is a rare sight in the park. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Also on this day, Barbara Creecy, the Minister of Environment, Forestry, and Fisheries, delivered food hampers and water tanks to communities living next to the park, all as part of the SANParks response to Covid-19 and the current lockdown. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter SANParks furthermore donated a water tank that will be continuously filled by the local municipality for residents in the area to have drinkable water during the lockdown. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Another great sighting occurred on Saturday, when a photo of a group of warthogs taken by one of the rangers, was shared on Twitter. With their tails up in the air, they surely were enjoying the long weekend. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter The most appreciated sighting, however, came on Sunday – the majestic sight of a pride of lions in the wild. According to SANParks, this is always a privilege to see. The lions had been spotted by the Satara webcam. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Monday, 27 April delivered the great sighting of a wary dwarf mongoose, all to much delight of thousands of nature lovers who now have to watch nature in all its splendour, on a screen. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter The current unprecedented times make the sight of wild animals in all its splendour even more valuable and appreciated, as we wait our turn to have the next long drive of our own in the Kruger National Park.