A safari experience is now available to you in the comfort of your own home. WildEarth’s safariLIVE provides you with the option of a sunrise safari at 06:00 or a sunset safari at 15:30, each lasting a full three hours. All you need is an electronic device with internet access and YouTube does the rest. During the safari, viewers can interact with, as WildEarth calls them, “expert naturalists” and ask questions that come to mind during the “drive”. They even make room for a special 45-minute slot where kids (ages 4-18) can tune in and also pose their questions, or just enjoy the scenery. These sessions can be registered for on their website and are free. They take care to avoid overly graphic content like mating, hunting or carcasses while children are tuned in. ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR sends staff home after second confirmed Covid-19 case There are a few expert naturalists for a session, and they switch back and forth depending on what they find in their area. According to WildEarth, common animals that can be encountered include impalas, kudus, warthogs, elephants, hippos, lions, leopards, giraffes and various bird species. On the April 7 sunrise safari, sightings included a lion, hyenas, hippos, waterbuck, elephants, giraffes, a leopard, mongooses and as mentioned, various species of birds. The naturalists also take time to look at plants and insects. At each encounter, they share some interesting facts about the animals or plants. Although close to the Kruger National Park, these safaris are not in the park itself. The safaris are done in the Djuma Private Game Reserve in The Sabi Sands and the Ngala Private Game Reserve. ALSO READ: CANSA will not let Covid-19 stop fight against cancer  Sunrise Safari times (Monday to Friday): Central African Time (CAT): 06:00 – 09:00 East African Time (EAT): 07:00 – 10:00 Eastern Standard Time (EDT): 00:00 – 03:00 Sunset Safari times (Monday to Friday): Central African Time (CAT): 15:30 – 18:30 East African Time (EAT): 16:30 – 19:30 Eastern Daylight Savings Time (EDT): 09:30 – 12:30