 As the country enters its extended lockdown period, Pick n Pay has today launched digital grocery vouchers – a safe and easy way to make sure someone you care for has access to essential items. It can also serve as a surprise to let someone know that you are thinking of them. Available through Webtickets or at any Pick n Pay Money counter, this new offering will provide a convenient way to purchase and send digital grocery vouchers. Vouchers will be available from R50 up to R1 000 and once purchased, customers can simply send the digital grocery voucher to anyone via SMS or email. The digital grocery vouchers can be used in any Pick n Pay store. Richard van Rensburg, CIO of Pick n Pay, said that the timing of this dynamic new feature is particularly relevant as many customers look to support each other, from a distance. “Many have been separated from their friends, family, domestic workers, staff or colleagues during lockdown. The new digital grocery voucher helps you virtually send essential food items to each other’s homes.” He added that this new feature will also help customers support a local charity that may be in need of supplies during this difficult time. ALSO READ: Pick n Pay does its part during nationwide lockdown The retailer recently launched its Feed the Nation campaign – aimed at providing food for those who don’t have a support system to fall back on during this crisis – and many customers have asked for a way to send a digital grocery voucher to those they want to help. “We believe this will enable us and our customers to help feed more individuals in need.”  How the Pick n Pay digital grocery voucher works?
1. Customers can purchase a digital grocery voucher by visiting Webtickets  or any Pick n Pay Money counter.
2. Once bought, customers can send the digital grocery voucher via SMS or email.
3. The voucher recipient will get a message via the platform selected (SMS or email) with the voucher value and a unique voucher code, which they then use when paying for their purchases. ALSO READ: Pick n Pay Malelane pays it forward This is not a replacement for physical gift cards, but rather an additional feature to add more value to customers and help encourage contactless transactions during this time. Pick n Pay also recently launched new ‘Scan & Pay’ technology for contactless card payments in all stores.