 To date Mpumalanga has recorded a total number of 18 Covid-19 cases with no fatalities. This according to a media release from the Provincial Joint Operation and Intelligence Structure Communication Team. These cases include 10 females and eight males and shows an increase in the number of positive cases in the province. The cases are located in all three districts with Ehlanzeni recording nine, Gert Sibande five and Nkangala four. A total of 208 tests for Covid-19 have been conducted. 176 of these tests came back negative. Of the negative results, Ehlanzeni recorded 103, Nkangala 43 and Gert Sibande 30. The other 14 cases’ results are not yet known. Meanwhile, the police in Mpumalanga detained eight undocumented people on April 4, on the N12 road around Ogies for contravening the Immigration Regulations. They are believed to be Bangladesh nationals. ALSO READ: Woman tests positive for Covid-19 in Malalane According to the report, police were busy patrolling the area when they spotted a grey Toyota Avanza which was fully loaded with occupants. They became suspicious when they noticed the vehicle at that particular time because in terms of the lockdown regulations, public transport should adhere to and only ferry essential staff within stipulated times/places. Upon stopping the vehicle, police conducted a search and established that eight occupants were undocumented. These men were then detained and according to preliminary investigation they are allegedly from Bangladesh. The Departments of Home Affairs and Health were coordinated so that the necessary precautionary measures could be followed in terms of the Covid-19 Guidelines and Regulations. The suspects will appear in absentia before the Witbank Magistrate Court on April 6. ALSO READ: Municipality issues temporary permits for informal traders The MEC for Health in Mpumalanga, Ms Sasekani Manzini says the Department of Health has already screened all eight men for Covid-19. “Of the eight, one is showing signs of Covid-19 infection. The Department has taken tests from the suspect to establish whether he is infected or not. All the men will be quarantined for the duration of the incubation period,” she explained. According to the Department of Home Affairs, they will have the men deported back to their country once all processes have been completed. In addition, MEC Manzini is calling on the public to stay at home, avoid unnecessary movement to shops and contacts during the lockdown period. “The intention of the lockdown is not to frustrate the public, but to prevent more spread in an effort to flatten the curve”. She further reminds people to always wash their hands with soap for at least 20 seconds, use sanitisers with an alcohol content, and avoid sharing food, drinks and utensils. Also cover your mouths with a flexed elbow or use a tissue or handkerchief when you cough or sneeze. ALSO READ: Lockdown shelter going strong with community’s continued support She also urges people to seek medical treatment if they experience symptoms of Covid-19, which include coughing, a high temperature of 38 degrees and above, a fever, a sore throat and diarrhoea.  “People who might have been in contact with someone who tested positive are urged to come forward for testing and assessment,” MEC Manzini appeals.