 The owners of SPAR Express were the first people willing to have the disinfecting system tested after Anti Vi sent the concept out to a few people. Jaco Dos Santos, owner of SPAR Express, said they feel honoured that the system is being tested at their shop. “And it’s not about getting clients, it’s about having people feel safe when they come here.” According to him it is very effective because you don’t have to pick up a bottle of sanitiser and there also doesn’t have to be a person physically standing at the door. Belinda Erasmus, co-owner and marketing manager for Anti Vi – Sanitizing Solutions, said the Anti Vi came into existence just before the lockdown was announced. Her family was influenced by the laws and restrictions of the lockdown, and her father, being in construction, said he saw the concept abroad. ALSO READ: 19 Mediclinic Nelspruit staff members back at work after contact with Covid-19 “He put the concept together and started building on his stoep. We did the research around the products and got the marketing started.” What awaits them in the future, Erasmus said, is the big question. “We have a production line that has taken off in the past week to supply the product to numerous big retail groups and private schools across South Africa.” The system as seen at SPAR Express in Ferreira Street, costs R35 000. She said the sides can also be altered to fit the shop’s corporate identity. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Department of Health Covid-19 screening – here are the numbers Beginning to end, the tunnel works as follows: The unit is equipped with a censor that picks up movement. It switches on as soon as it senses you at the entrance and then switches off again when you exit the tunnel. At the entrance there is a specific point where you are supposed to sanitise your hands.  AntiVi Walk Through Tunnel – Chippos Spar Express Nelspruit Say Halo to the FIRST walk through disinfecting tunnel installed at Spar Express at Chippo's in Nelspruit. Jaco and Lizani Dos Santos is walking the extra mile to #FlattenTheCurve and protecting their staff and customers!Now installing at Shopping Centres, Hotels, Mines and Schools! Visit our website www.antivi.co.za or contact us on info@antivi.co.za | 0765525427 | 0823020525 | 0826480608In these extremely difficult times we are supporting local small businesses to manufacture these units. Thank you to ShowMe Nelspruit for our website in record time, 4 Keep Sake for the prints and the most talented videographer based in Nelspruit – Sven Musica from Phonix Capture cc – Professional Photography and Videography! Posted by Anti Vi – Sanitizing Solutions on Wednesday, 22 April 2020 According to Erasmus, they did their research until they found a cost effective product that was registered through the European Food Safety Authority and approved for “human consumption”. She said the sanitiser is water based, eco-friendly and contains no alcohol or chlorine. Erasmus said they will be installing a system at Shangri La Academy in Kempton Park next week and will be running a promotion where schools get a 10 per cent discount and the unit installed before the school opens.