 The Lion’s Den, an entrepreneurial consultancy founded by Leon Lategan, is a proudly South African company that aims to empower more than 100 000 entrepreneurs within the next 5 years. The company has created a world-class business platform called the Lion’s Den Entrepreneur Movement, aimed specifically at supporting South African entrepreneurs, business owners, and people looking to supplement their income or deal with the harsh economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic. By giving entrepreneurs access to both basic and advanced business coaching and training, as well as helping them develop the skills required to create a professional online presence, the Lion’s Den ensures that entrepreneurs are well-equipped with the knowledge required to navigate both the business world and current economic climate. In this way, businesses become sustainable whilst generating revenue now and in the long-term. The Lion’s Den Entrepreneur Movement gives entrepreneurs access to a 20-day Business Survival & Future Preparation Programme, an online community consisting of news, announcements, courses, cases studies and motivational posts, as well as a professional landing page that will make it easier for entrepreneurs to communicate with their customers and generate leads. This valuable platform also includes social media courses and over 30 hours of business coaching from the founder; experienced business professional and coach Leon Lategan. With over 5000 businesses having already participated in the Lion’s Den Entrepreneur Movement and a 96% success rate, this platform is well suited to meet the needs of those desiring business and entrepreneurial success. By joining today, entrepreneurs receive access to networking opportunities, business communities, business directory, job listings and more! Joining the platform is simple, with a cost  starting from only R890* per year for access to both the 20-day Business Survival & Future Preparation Programme, as well as ongoing access to the platform itself. The Lion’s Den has made sure that the price is cost-effective and accessible – the price prior to the Covid-19 crisis was R5940, making this a bargain that is not to be missed! Financial freedom and success await you. Sign up NOW to join the most groundbreaking entrepreneurial platform in South Africa!  *The inclusion of further personalized consultations with business expert Leon Lategan may cause prices to vary.