 After the closure of Malelane SUPERSPAR this week, a message has surfaced from the Mpumalanga Department of Health (DOH) urging all of the patrons who have visited the store in the last two weeks to have themselves tested. A separate message indicated that a screening team would visit the Malalane taxi rank to screen those who had visited the store after March 27. According to Mel Preddy, chairperson of Malalane Community Police Forum (CPF), a screening team was indeed present and working at 13:30 on Thursday, but was only available until 15:45. A message was also sent out to community groups from the Malalane and Komatipoort CPF stating the following: Clarification on exposure to risk of infection: Application of good, common sense dictates that one’s risk of exposure to Covid-19 is closely related to the standard of one’s social distancing and sanitary practices. There are several messages doing the rounds, pertaining to Malelane SUPERSPAR and a Department of Health (DOH) recommendation to get tested if you have visited the store. This communication seeks to clear up misconceptions. ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR donates food due to Covid-19 closure The following objective facts apply: 1. The store in question has been unfailingly diligent in implementing measures to limit risk of transmission, to a degree seen in very few such establishments; 2. The 265 staff in the store have been guided on maintaining social distance from the start. The second positive test was due to preceding contact (lift-sharing) with the first person, who at this time is already reported as recovered; 3. The store was not closed by the DOH. Instead, employees were directed by the DOH to go home and isolate for two weeks; 4. Due to the impracticality of training and managing the required numbers of temporary staff to keep the store open, with no experienced employees to assist, the owners made the decision to close the store. A total of 40 000 persons or more may have visited the store during the past two weeks. When deciding whether to approach the contact person designated by the DOH for testing, base that decision on your own understanding of your personal diligence in maintaining safe practices, as provided for in the government guidelines. Did you hug anyone in the store? Did you sanitise your hands? Did you keep touching your face while pushing a trolley? Please do not spread misconceptions or rumours about any matters related to the virus or incidents. This is counterproductive and can induce unwarranted panic. ALSO READ: Malelane SUPERSPAR sends staff home after second confirmed Covid-19 case