 “The efficient and safe construction site of the future will not operate without digital mortar. Connected smart construction vehicles and machines are among the basic elements ensuring faster, safer and, above all, more efficient operations on construction sites,” declared Hans-Jürgen Duensing, whose remit as a member of the Continental executive board includes the off-highway sector. “Construction sites are the starting point for future mobility. Roads have to be constructed, railway tracks laid, agricultural and forest tracks built and factories erected. The construction and mining sectors are therefore key industries and an indispensable part of our world now and in the future.” All of this is underpinned by sensors that monitor the fundamental components in machinery and vehicles. The company supplies assistance systems and solutions for monitoring surroundings in response to the trend towards fully automated vehicles and machines. ALSO READ: Rapid distribution to those in need is continued Continental has an extensive tyre portfolio: EM-Master for wheel-loaders, RDT-Master for rigid dump trucks and Conti CrossTrac for trucks – for different applications on construction sites, in quarries and in sand and gravel pits. In its new ContiLogger consultancy concept, Continental is also bringing together tyres, hardware, software and data into an innovative service approach. The technology company uses a range of components in order to capture data such as tyre pressure, tyre temperature and vehicle and topographic data in real-life applications. With the aid of the data collected, which either undergoes one-off analysis by the Continental field engineer or is continuously digitally captured by the user, recommendations can be developed for optimised route management, loading or tyre use. Consequently, users can not only identify whether a tyre is being overloaded or underused, and thus extend tyre lifetime, but can also adapt operational processes so that overall productivity is increased. A new air spring system with an integrated sensor system provides permanent information about the operating status in real time. Day-to-day operations of industrial applications are becoming more efficient thanks to the smart air spring. All operations and processes will become safer, simpler and more efficient as a result – especially in the fields of control and monitoring. The new generation of the ProViu 360 system does not just deliver bird’s-eye images. The digital camera system can be adapted to the relevant application field to support a very wide range of activities. It is therefore not just suitable for an all-round overview. The ProViu 360 system is scheduled to begin production in 2020. Continental’s modular driver’s workplace (mFAP) features intuitive usability and total freedom when configuring and programming the various displays and control panels. It allows a high level of adaptability to the relevant requirements of the construction vehicles and thus offers benefits to both drivers and manufacturers. ALSO READ: Motorists can now report minor accidents and obtain a case number online Drivers only have the information they really need displayed – in their mother tongue, on request. This means they are not unnecessarily distracted and are able to focus on the traffic and their operations. Unscheduled vehicle downtime and the risk of accidents are reduced as a result.