 HAZYVIEW – Jchaan de Beer, the operational manager for Hi-Tech White River and Hazyview, confirmed that at approximately 21:50 on Friday, he had received a call about a white Audi that had purportedly been hijacked at Bushbuckridge by three armed assailants, travelling in the direction of Hazyview. “I notified my reaction manager, Dohan Bezuidenhout, and he immediately went to crime spots known to harbour stolen motor vehicles. He found the Audi in the Nyongane region near Hazyview,” De Beer said. The blue Polo found in the Shabalala Township. “On inspection of the vehicle, it was found that the suspects had already fled the scene and that the car was locked. We swiftly alerted the SAPS and handed the vehicle over to them,” he added De Beer explained that they were about to depart from a Total garage in Hazyview when they received information at midnight about a blue Polo, forcefully taken in the Shabalala Township. ALSO READ: Copper thief caught red-handed “The vehicle’s tracking unit placed it near our location and we responded,” he said. The blue Polo found in the Shabalala township “While driving around, we spotted a blue Polo in Arend Street and decided to investigate. A high-speed chase ensued. “The suspected hijackers, who were obviously not familiar with the area, found themselves in a cul-de-sac in the Simunye Complex,” De Beer explained. Hi-Tech Security, which pursued the bandits on foot, saw them climbing over a palisade fence. The assailants opened fire on the Hi-Tech members. “After firing warning shots we ordered the suspected car thieves to lie down on the ground,” De Beer said. A nine-millimetre pistol found on the suspect. They managed to arrest two out of the three, as one alleged hijacker escaped over the palisade fence. “We were able to recover an Audi key and a pistol with a few rounds of ammunition. It was determined that the key belonged to the white Audi recovered earlier. ALSO READ: Abnormal amount of intoxicated drivers a concern for provincial police “We summoned the police and an ambulance, as one of the suspects was bleeding profusely from the face. We disbanded at around 03:00 on Saturday,” De Beer concluded. Brig Leonard Hlathi, the provincial police spokesman, had not responded to comment at the time of going to press.