 It is one of the most important international tourism trade markets relevant to the South African tourism industry.
Vakantiebeurs is the largest consumer travel show in the Netherlands, with more than 100 000 people estimated to have visited the show between January 15 and 19. This was the fifth year that Kruger Lowveld was represented at the show. Tourism destinations and products from around the world are exhibited in six large halls, all vying to attract the attention of a large middle class of well-travelled and educated Dutch population. ALSO READ: Malalane teacher, accused of sexual assault, to reappear in court The show offered everything from camper vans in Canada to Antarctic expeditions to trekking in the Himalayas. These days South Africa has to work hard to compete with our African neighbours such as Namibia, Botswana as well as countries further afield such as Uganda, Zambia and Tanzania, that were well represented and successfully growing their share of the African market, said Kruger Lowveld Tourism spokesperson, Tom Vorster. The “South African Village” was dominated by a well-run South African Tourism (SAT) stand showcasing a mixture of destinations, well-known tourism products and some sponsored SMMEs. “The Kruger Lowveld stand was well positioned opposite the SAT stand and attracted much passing traffic. We were one of only six South African destination marketing organisations represented,” Vorster said. “Our region remains a popular destination for the Dutch market, particularly for self- drive couples and families. Many of the people we met on the stand had visited the country previously and stopped by to see what was new and exciting in the area. One couple were planning their 28th trip to the Kruger. “There were questions about safety, value for money, and complaints about the state of some public attractions. However, many of those we met had already booked their flights and used the Vakantiebeurs to choose their South African destination for this year.” Over the five days they met several tour operators interested in the region as well as a large number of independent travellers wishing to visit the region with their families. “We gave potential visitors ideas of the different safari options available and highlighted the region’s other attractions such as the Panorama Route, Geotrail and the multitude of activities. “It was clear that we are competing with cheaper safari options in East Africa as well as safer and more stable destinations elsewhere in the world.” Vorster added that South Africa as a whole will have to up its game in many aspects if it wished to remain top of mind in this large and important source market. ALSO READ: It is more than just a cosmetic facelift