 MBOMBELA – Sweltering heat is what the Lowveld is renowned for. The sunny days have a drawback and hold inherent dangers for Lowvelders who experience it daily. Babies, children and the elderly are extremely sensitive to the heat and are at risk of heat exhaustion or heatstroke. To counter this, adequate hydration can keep heat-related illnesses at bay. Before you reach for a cold beverage from the refrigerator to cool down, a warm cup of rooibos tea might just be the solution, according to experts.  ALSO READ: FOTO’s: Laerskool Nelspruit se graadeens is aan die gang vir 2020 ‘Just how does a hot drink cool you down?” you ask. Studies conducted by the University of Ottawa have found that a drink lowers the amount of heat stored by the body, provided that the sweat produced by the hot drink can evaporate. Joe Swart, the research director for the SA Rooibos Council, explained that sweating is the body’s way of cooling us down. “As sweat evaporates from the surface of the skin, it cools and removes excess heat to keep our body temperature in check.  ALSO READ: WATCH: Nelspruit Primary School’s grade ones “It’s interesting to note that during one of the studies, researchers also tested the effect of a warm drink on those participating in exercise for 75 minutes at a relatively low intensity, in 24 degrees Celsius at 23 per cent relative humidity, while consuming water at different temperatures. It was only after participants had consumed the warm drink, when their overall body temperature dropped,” he said. Swart said rooibos tea is a healthy and affordable cooling option for everyone, including babies. “It contains no caffeine, is low in tannin and you can drink as much of it as you want, unlike other hot beverages that may have a diuretic effect. ALSO READ: WATCH: Nelspruit Primary School’s grade ones “Rooibos tea can also be enjoyed hot or cold and comes in a variety of fruit and spiced-infused flavours. On a hot, dry summer day, cool down with a warm cup, while in hot, humid weather, it can be turned into a delicious iced tea, to help regulate your body temperature in a healthy, natural way. “It also won’t add any additional calories as it contains no fats or carbohydrates and is naturally sweet, which eliminates the need for sugar.” So, if you live in the Lowveld, or other warmer parts of the country, hydrate with something warm, while cold drinks in more humid regions such as Durban could provide some much-needed reprieve in the summer heat.  ALSO READ: GALLERY: Uplands Prep welcomes their new grade ones Try any one of these rooibos iced tea recipes to help quench your thirst: Rooibos, lemon and mint iced tea: Place teabags, lemon and mint leaves in a large pot, pour boiling water onto it and leave to steep for 10 minutes. Stir occasionally. Remove teabags when tea is cold and refrigerate. Add honey for a sweeter taste. ALSO READ: Ride for a child campaign with Pediatric Care Africa Rooibos and berry iced tea: Make the tea using one cup of boiling water and three tea bags. Set aside for a few minutes to steep. Then remove the teabags and add the remaining cold water.  ALSO READ: TRAC will support Emakhazeni Local Municipality Set aside to cool. Heat up the raspberries, sugar and vanilla in a saucepan for 2-3 minutes, stirring often. Put the mixture through a sieve by squashing the fruit to help separate the pulp and juice from the seeds. Once the tea has cooled completely, add the raspberry mixture, lemon juice and mint leaves. Drop in fresh raspberries and a couple of lemon wedges and serve with ice cubes. Keep refrigerated.