 WHITE RIVER – Fr Andrew Simons remarked that a heavy downpour is seen in many cultures as an anointment of God of a memorial service, while the rain fell hard outside. He stated that grief is an honourable emotion, born out of love and that Delsya understood that God is about love. Simons further stressed that you must allow loss to draw you into deeper dependency on the Lord and He will deliver you. ALSO READ: Former Uplands pupil dies in car crash “We had the privilege to have been touched by her and now we celebrate this wonderful person. When her father found her bible while going through her belongings, he saw that she had encircled the same bible verse that we have read here to today from Scripture; in Corinthians it is said: Love is patient and kind. Love is not jealous or boastful or proud or rude.” “A message written on a piece of paper in her bible read; I love you God, from your daughter,” Simons said.”  On behalf of the Urmson family, Dave Ernstzen addressed the crowd in a packed hall, on Urmson’s numerous achievements. “I had a special relationship with her and I stood in admiration of her tenacity, courage and many accomplishments. She was accepted at the University of Pretoria to study medicine and stood third in her class at the end of her first year. Delsya touched the hearts of so many at Uplands College and although she was small in stature, she was full of valour,” Ernstzen said. The Urmson family spokesperson, Dave Ernstzen. Her sister, Lourenza Urmson, delivered a heartfelt message; “From the moment you came into this world you filled our hearts with your smiles and laughter. You are absolutely gorgeous and will always be remembered by me. I will hold you forever safe in my heart. You are one of God’s angels now; spread your wings. I will miss you forever and my life will never be the same.” ALSO READ: Uplands matrics do it again Delsya’s father, Alan, told Lowvelder that the conclusion of the commemorative ceremony brought him some closure, but he is still devastated by the death of his daughter. “I will never be able to go on with my life normally again. I have to thank the Lowveld community though, for their absolutely incredible support.” Alan Urmson, Delsya’s father consoled by family and friends.