 MBOMBELA – The Mpumalanga MEC of sports and recreation, Lindiwe Ntshalintshali, came under fire for a recording in which she allegedly discusses government deals with an unidentified man. The recording was aired by SABC on Saturday morning and contains detailed quotes of Ntshalintshali and the unknown man in talks about alleged kickbacks. A transcript of the recording reads: “Mabuza is not right and that girl, but I will deal with them. But you will focus. You keep quiet. The only person who knows about this process is me and Joe (inaudible). Nobody else. So he will talk to you. Lindiwe Ntshalintshali – MEC for Culture, Sport and Recreation. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga makes strong showing in Ramaphosa’s cabinet “And then you will liaise because he said, ‘Please bring somebody that you will trust with your life.’ Whatever that we worked on when we (inaudible) for dividends. “You know that your things (inaudible). This is how we’ll get there. So I did not want to get any person because others start fighting. Because the comrades knock (swindle) each other.” As the recording continues, she discusses firing principal staff members who she claims are not performing their duties. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Cultural Xperience kicked off with a comedy show “I will explain that I’ve spoken to you, I’ve warned you here and here. I’m not being assisted. We go to functions and I’m saying, how do you feel at a meeting when you don’t know what you’ll be discussing? You haven’t brought any notes. “My private secretary should be wherever I am (inaudible). Sometimes you’d need help with other things and she’s not there. I’ve spoken to her four or five times. There are rumours that her and Mabuza are sleeping and waking up
in one place. Lindiwe Ntshalintshali with Pumaki. ALSO READ: World champs coming to Mpumalanga next year Ntshalintshali neither confirmed or denied that it was her speaking on the audio recording. When contacted by Lowvelder for comment, she said, “I will not be commenting on the recording. The ANC national office is investigating the authenticity of the recording and once the findings are made public, I will comment on it.”