 MBOMBELA – This concert harp is a large, technically modern one constructed mainly for art music. “It typically has 47 strings and costs anywhere from R144 800 to nearly R3 million, depending on the exchange rate, and the aforementioned price excludes customs and excise taxes, air freight costs and value-added tax,” according to Ingrid Janse van Rensburg, who act as an agent for the harp companies, Salvi & Lyon and Healy, situated in Italy and Chicago respectively. She is also the owner of the only harp shop in South Africa, Avondale Harp Enterprises in Johannesburg. Theresa Prinsloo, an avid player of this stringed instrument, moved to the Lowveld a little more than a decade ago and started teaching students willing to learn this skill. ALSO READ: Van klavier tot harp by vanjaar se eisteddfod “To my surprise, unbelievable students with a keen interest in this discipline applied to be taught by me. I myself own one of these pedal harps, that allowed me to play more difficult and exciting music pieces,” a proud Prinsloo explained. Janse van Rensburg stressed that the instrument will need regular upkeep that can be quite expensive, as it will need to be serviced every two years. “Previously, musicians had to travel to Johannesburg in order to find a technician skilled enough to work on these harps. I have a contract with H&B Music in England. I therefore told Theresa, if she can get me four people that require my services, I can get two gentlemen to come to Mbombela when they are next in South Africa, in order to attend to the needs of aspiring harp musicians,” she said. Ingrid Janse van Rensburg and Theresa Prinsloo.  The independent technicians, Billy and Brad Hornby, two of about only 130 in the world, are qualified harp specialists from H&B Music and admitted guild members. “Salvi & Lyon and Healy only allow members into the guild that are trained up to a certain level of excellence,” Billy explained. “The waiting list is from four to 12 months, if you order through me. Every person interested in buying a harp, must first look on the Internet for the type of harp they wish to procure, and I will enquire about its availability from the manufacturer,” said Janse van Rensburg. ALSO READ: Students string audience through the classics