“Fire your boss” – with a headline like this, whose interest wouldn’t be peaked? As soon as the Waterpreneurs site loads, it is the very first thing that you all but screams at you, compelling you to scroll down. Join 100’s of Waterpreneurs today and grab your future by the horns.  When taking into consideration that there are not a lot of South African citizens who can actually say that they have a boss, or are even employed, and a great number of others who work for minimum wage (or less), this may very well be what a lot of people need, not only to make extra money, but to merely survive. With South Africa’s economy seeing more and more challenges, along with household expenses and spending costs rising rapidly more people are struggling to keep their heads above water. The national minimum wage is R20 an hour for average workers, R18 for farmworkers, R15 for domestic workers and R11 for expanded public works programme workers. With fuel, electricity, water and food prices, amongst others, steadily rising, and income barely covering the basics, people are continuously looking for new ways to make extra money to counter economic and socio-economic challenges. View the program now. What is the Waterpreneur Program? Waterpreneurs is an innovative and revolutionary program that assists people in generating extra income. By joining the movement you will be able to promote and sell some of the latest, and most exciting health and wellness products in the world. The aim of the movement is to help 10000 people from all walks of life, with no prior entrepreneurial or business experience and provide them with the training, the skills and the tools, to become an entrepreneur. With an estimated 57.5% of the workforce currently unemployed, the single biggest solution to overcoming this challenge is to develop skills and create entrepreneurs.  How Waterpreneurs works Waterpreneurs gives ordinary people with no prior experience the chance to up their income every month by becoming agents for the company. All it requires is that individuals fill in a short form and make a payment of R995.00 to join the Rapid Success Accelerator Program. Along with the subscription, the individual is provided with; Distributors are spread across the Eastern Cape, Free State, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga, Northern and Western Cape along with Swaziland and Zambia; providing individuals ease of access to distributors and products. Efficiency of the training program R995 is a lot of money these days, and the chances are that there are very few people who could say that they currently have that in their bank accounts, but with the promise of being able to make up to R9500 and more a month, it surely is worth taking a chance. The Rapid Success Accelerator program has specifically been designed to provide results. When looking at testimonials and reviews provided on all sorts of social media platforms, it is easy to see that this is not another money-making scheme where large companies rely on cheap labor only to pocket most of money made by those desperately seeking ways of increasing income, but a company that is genuinely invested in teaming up with willing individuals who want to make money while being part of a greater movement in South Africa.  Why should you consider joining the movement? The main product that is available to Waterpreneurs now and the product that the program was started with, is Designer Water. Designer Water is the industry leader in alkaline water and alkaline water technology on the continent and in 2019 won two international awards for; Best alkaline water production company and Most innovative bottled water company. https://designerwater.co.za So far we have already trained more than 1000 individuals in the past year and some of our distributors have been able to make up to R35000 in a month in the first six months since joining. When looking at the statistics, the South African bottled water industry produces approximately 1.8 billion bottles of water a year, which means that the potential market is between R10.8 and R14.4 billion rand. 30% of total beverage sales in South Africa is that of bottled water, along with it being the fastest growing beverage. Water is needed to survive, and with current conditions regarding scarcity of water along with the quality of water, bottled water is much more preferred in several households , and more people are relying on bottled water for everyday uses. For a minimal input cost to join the program and receiving training without prior knowledge or experience in the industry or even in business management, individuals can truly take matters into their own hands and become entrepreneurs while simultaneously aiding in improving the quality of life for others who don’t readily have access to clean, adequate water sources. Other new products will be launched under the DesignerBody brand. Individuals seeking more information on the program, or those who would like to join the movement, can visit https://waterpreneurs.co.za  