 DULLSTROOM – Vernon Kruger has been up on his pole for nearly two months, and his spirits are still high as he focuses on his goal to set a new world record. One of the biggest challenges he has encountered is the ever-changing weather conditions. Dullstroom is known for its misty, cold conditions. Kruger records his attempt in videos he posts on Facebook, and did one on how the sun disappeared in a few moments leading up to a full-blown thunderstorm. He had told Lowvelder’s sister publication, Steelburger/Lydenburg News, that one of his greatest concerns was lightning. This fear soon came to a realisation after only a few days in the barrel when the first lightning strike missed the barrel by metres. Andrew Dollenberg plays on the bagpipe. To make matters worse, the umbrella covering the barrel, keeping Kruger dry from rain, started to leak. As soon as he fixed one leak, another one would spring. He has a workout routine every morning, and in the past weeks some members of the public joined him on the ground, mimicking his movement and routine. ALSO READ: Challenge accepted: More than two months in pole mounted wine barrel He also made a stew over coals in his barrel and keeps himself busy by making objects out of wood, as well as other crafts. Many people questioned what his Christmas plans were, but due to personal reasons, Vernon does not celebrate this occasion. He had the following to say: “Just to avoid embarrassment or misunderstanding, I need to mention that I do not celebrate Christmas, or partake in gift-giving or receiving on Christmas Day. I don’t mean to advertise my life or reveal everything about myself, but when undergoing an event like this, it becomes unavoidable to disclose certain things.” Recently, Andrew Dollenberg, from the Steve Hamilton Pipe Band, came to play some bagpipe music at the foot of the pole. As far as entertainment around the pole goes, there is no shortage. People are urged to donate to Vernon’s cause, as all proceeds will be donated to charity. ALSO READ: Up on a pole for a month