 MBOMBELA – Her mother, Ashleigh van Staden, who went to check on her just before 04:00 yesterday, found her lifeless but peaceful body lying in her little bed. “I am heartbroken but grateful for the six years I had with her. She earned her wings and I know she is a little angel in heaven now,” Van Staden said. After 15 days in Rob Ferreira, six-year-old Caiden received vital PEG surgery and was discharged on January 2. Dumisani Malamule, the spokesperson for the Mpumalanga Department of Health (DoH) confirmed that the toddler had the operation on December 31, after three cancelled surgeries and 15 days in Rob Ferreira. ALSO READ: Rob Ferreira earns its praise in a failing healthcare system “The patient came in during a contingency plan period and unfortunately the medical institution had high volumes of critical care emergencies,” Malamule said at the time. Lowvelder spoke to the caretaker of the deceased little girl and Ashleigh’s godmother, Francina du Plessis, who explained that Caiden was discharged from hospital on Wednesday after she had to endure another surgery to replace the feeding tube that suffered from a leakage. “She was admitted to Barberton Hospital on January 8, while still recovering from her original PEG surgery. Caiden was transferred to Rob Ferreira on January 9 and the leaking tube was replaced in an apparent successful operation on January 10.” “It would appear that she had stopped breathing during sleep. I think that her body was just tired after all she went through,” Du Plessis explained. “My heart is in pieces. I know she is in a better place, where no more pain will befall her. Although we were all prepared for this day, it is still a shock to us all. Dr Michael Lippert, the neurologist who treated Caiden, warned us years ago that a baby with her condition only has a life expectancy of two to five years. I am certain that she is in heaven with God now, as a child with her condition has no sin on earth to answer for,” an emotional Du Plessis communicated. ALSO READ: Caiden beleef terugslag na behandeling – jy kan só help Lowvelder previously reported on November 7, 2014 that Caiden was diagnosed with lissencephaly at the age of six months. She received crucial stem-cell treatment from Dr Hein van Wyk during March 2015, in order to improve her chances of survival. Lissencephaly is a rare brain disorder. Whole or parts of the brain’s surface appear smooth, leading to severe mental development problems. Caiden was also diagnosed with West syndrome, which causes severe infantile spasms. Ashleigh told the newspaper on December 31 that her daughter started to struggle consuming food three months ago. “She lost a lot of weight, her physical appearance declined rapidly and her epileptic seizures increased. The neurologist alerted me to the fact that because of her limited brain function, she might eventually forget how to swallow her food.” According to Du Plessis, a memorial service may be held for Caiden next week Tuesday in Barberton, but nothing has been finalised yet.