 MBOMBELA – Kenyon said, “The theft and misappropriation of GRIP’s funds is containable, but it is dealing with the aftermath of some decisions taken in the former management’s time that has caused the new board many headaches. “A criminal case was opened in June against the three ex-senior managers and is still being investigated. Unfortunately, due to bad management, bad business decisions and fraud by the three members of management, GRIP has had to retrench almost all staff members, and also had to make a decision to either close GRIP down or try to start again.” Lowvelder previously reported how GRIP’s funds were allegedly mismanaged by some former members of the management team. The allegations are under investigation, and those implicated have denied any wrongdoing. Kenyon said, “The organisation had to scale down to generously donated premises at the Simunye Building in Anderson Street. It is the premises we were in previously, and it feels nice to be back at ‘our home’. Finding out I was still a member of the board of trustees was a shock, too.” Kenyon had to go back to working with the organisation. “I was encouraged to continue to try and help survivors of rape and domestic violence after speaking to the care workers who, as one, voted to carry on working since April for zero remuneration. I am continually humbled by their absolute commitment to their communities and to GRIP.” ALSO READ: Thousands pilfered from GRIP With all the troubles, GRIP also had some good moments. Licky Thusi, who has been a stalwart with the organisation since 2000, took over as CEO. Kenyon said she is thankful that many people who have helped previously, continued to do so. “We are so grateful and this keeps us marching forward. I am immensely grateful to the new board for their valuable business insight, and especially to Pieter and Annemarie Swanepoel who have given their wisdom and time to GRIP during the past six months. And to all our donors, we thank you immensely.” Kenyon believes the criminal justice system will ensure that justice prevails in the case opened. ALSO READ: GRIP appeals to locals to help with care room revamp