 After lengthy talks between ELM and TRAC regarding the upgrades and renovations that are needed in the municipal area that borders the N4 Toll Route, TRAC agreed to assist with three critical projects, namely the refurbishment of the Emakhazeni Testing Centre, the renovation of the old bakery in Waterval Boven and the rehabilitation of Molen Road in Entokozweni (Machadodorp). The total cost of the projects is estimated to be R5 million. TRAC commented that its support falls in line with its community-support responsibilities to communities along the road. In addition, TRAC stated that responding to key economic needs such as this “will contribute towards economic upliftment of vulnerable people and communities”. Furthermore, its “involvement will also boost small and medium-sized enterprises development and support and enhance road safety”. TRAC committed to restore the testing centre’s two administration buildings and ablutions with upgrades expected to start this month. ALSO READ: TRAC helps keep Early Childhood Development centres on the right track with refurbished creché The project, which is expected to take three months, will see a subcontractor appointed for the bulk of the initiative. The second phase will consist of the renovation of the weighbridge following a separate tender process. TRAC will, however, employ internal resources to do basic construction work, such as the fencing and installation of surface drainage. The bakery will be refurbished to ensure it can become operational again. The project will be managed by an entity appointed by ELM with the funding provided by TRAC. In respect of the rehabilitation of Molen Road, TRAC will repair it during the rehabilitation of the area of the N4 adjacent to Entokzweni. TRAC will also partner with the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison on its community policing forum project, which MEC Gabisile Tshabalala is expected to launch soon. This will include an initial donation of 500 torches for use by law-enforcement officials during anti-crime and road-safety operations. TRAC has already donated 1 000 blankets to the ELM in celebration of Mandela Day last year. These were handed to the elderly and the underprivileged within the municipal area. ALSO READ: TRAC remains concerned about truck backlog