 MBOMBELA – Mpumalanga Department of Education spokesperson, Jasper Zwane, said that on the first day of the school year on Wednesday, the number of grade one learners in Mbombela stood at 314, “but it was becoming less”. “It is expected that every year there are going to demands for admission, especially in fast-growing towns, for parents who applied on time and were told that schools of their choice are full, for parents who needed to relocate from one locality to the other for job opportunities and for families who, as a result of bereavement, had to relocate,” he told Lowvelder. The department is attending to these cases. The worst affected areas are eMalahleni (Witbank), Mbombela and Steve Tshwete municipal areas. One parent, Zinzile Mtotywa, summed up his frustration on Facebook on Wednesday. “Here we are, still without a school to start grade one. All three schools we submitted applications to, are still saying no. “The most painful is to have a school within a kilometre of my residence continue to say no to my applications. This is my last born and she is angry with me, as she sees me as having failed her. “The reality is that I have not failed her. But the system keeps giving us, the parents, all the thorns. I do not have money for the expensive, private schools. “My government, through our Constitution, promised a right to basic education, which has also been made free in recent times, although it is not, even for the foundation phase.” Yet the department is taking positive steps. READ MORE: Mbombela schools at capacity for 2020 In the short-term schools will be required to accommodate the children in their feeding areas by making alternative plans. “Schools in Mbombela were alerted of the intentions of the department to add extra classes here and there and to build a primary and secondary school in the near future, and as such they had to embark on makeshift arrangements to ensure that all learners of schoolgoing age are admitted, are in school learning,” Zwane said. The newspaper understands that the schools want a written undertaking from the department that temporary classrooms and teachers will be provided. Furniture and teaching materials are to be covered by the schools. “We appreciate the cooperation of schools in this regard and the understanding of parents in particular,” Zwane said. “The department intends to ensure that by Friday January 24, all learners must be in their respective classes learning. Overall the first school day was a success.” Should a parent experience a problem regarding the registration of a child to a school, they should request a written explanation from the principal, contact the nearest circuit office for assistance or call the department’s toll-free line on 080-020-3116 during office hours. SEE MORE: Galleries from the first school day Little ones brave their first day of school at St Peter’s Nelspruit Primary welcomes grade ones All Curro grade ones aboard for 2020