 BARBERTON – Wanter Dlamini (62) was trying to reconcile with her two estranged daughters when they allegedly murdered her earlier this month. This is why she visited the home of her daughter, Nonhlanhla Mthunywa (30), on January 5. Nonhlanhla and her sister, Mapum Mthunywa (39), were both charged with the murder of their mother in the Barberton Magistrate’s Court this week. This, allegedly, over an R40 000 insurance policy. Wanter Dlamini. ALSO READ: Threat of drought looms over Barberton Police in Mpumalanga said that Dlamini was invited for a visit by Nonhlanhla. Nonhlanhla lived in Emjindini Ext 11 and her mother lived nearby in Ext 17. Dlamini’s youngest daughter, Bessie van der Merwe, who lived with her, told Lowvelder in court yesterday that her half-sisters were caught by police when they tried to claim Dlamini’s insurance policy. Mapum Mthunywa. ALSO READ: Spate of shootings in Barberton claims another life She said that Nonhlanhla had come knocking at her window, inviting her over earlier that fateful morning.
Dlamini only went later, and was not seen again until her body was discovered dumped in a field near Barberton Abattoir the next day, on January 6. Nonhlanhla allegedly awaited her mother’s arrival with her 41-year-old friend and two other male friends. “When Dlamini eventually arrived at Nonhlanhla’s place, she was allegedly kidnapped, assaulted, and senselessly gang-raped by the two male friends while Nonhlanhla and her friend held her down,” said police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi. Dolly Msibi. ALSO READ: Barberton SAPS to increase patrols in Burgerville this weekend ahead of community meeting “When these suspects were done with their barbaric deeds, they strangled Dlamini to death, wrapped her body with a blanket and then hid it in an outside toilet.” Sources claimed that there was an initial attempt to poison the mother, but her drink tasted strange and she did not finish it. Later on the same day, Mapum allegedly organised that the body be transported and dumped in a nearby veld.
A murder case was opened and the police investigation revealed that her death was planned well in advance. Wanter Dlamini’s son, Mark van der Merwe. ALSO READ: Barberton no longer jewel of the Lowveld “It has since surfaced that in November, an insurance policy was taken out by Nonhlanhla’s friend.” According to Hlathi, the conditions stipulated that Dlamini’s unnatural death would result in a doubled cash payout. Nonhlanhla was arrested on Tuesday and charged with murder on Wednesday. Protesters gathered outside the courtroom. She was remanded in custody until February 5. Mapum was arrested on Wednesday and appeared in court on Thursday. She was also remanded in custody until February 5. Police have launched a manhunt for the remaining suspects and called for assistance from the community. Sibongile Sambo. ALSO READ: Horrendous murder scenes investigated by authorities Provincial commissioner of police, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, condemned the murder and welcomed the arrests. “It is very shameful to witness the murders of people who are allegedly killed or kidnapped by their own family members who are driven by greed and the love of money,” he said. “There is indeed a degeneration of morals in our society and we call on faith-based as well as community-based organisations to work hand-in-glove with the police with a view to instill morals in the society.”