 MBOMBELA – According to the police spokesperson, Capt Zandile Gqawa, the pair were in the process of robbing two people travelling to White River on the R40 at approximately 19:27, when one of the victims turned the tables on them. “The two victims were approached by the suspects, who had been travelling in a dark blue VW Jetta, who produced a firearm and demanded they hand over their valuables. “Unbeknown to them, one of the victims was armed and produced his firearm, which caused the two suspects to abandon the vehicle and flee,” Gqawa said. The driver of the car used to rob hitchhikers had reportedly registered the vehicle using his girlfriend’s name and surname. “He contacted her to lodge a case of hijacking at the Pienaar Police Station, but his plan was thwarted, because the police had been aware that the vehicle had been used in the commission of these robberies.” ALSO READ: Festive season peak time for robberies and crime The suspect’s girlfriend was placed under arrest and it emerged that there were numerous other robberies in which the gun-wielding pair had been involved. The pair were identified as Mbuso Nkambule (29) and Manelise Mlombo (30). “According to the investigating officer, the men faced eight charges of armed robbery at the KaBokweni Police Station, four at the White River Police Station and a further four at the Nelspruit Police Station.” A week after the driver’s arrest, his accomplice was identified by witnesses who pointed them out at an identification parade. “A third suspect, believed to be involved with the two, is still on the loose and the police are hard at work to track him down so he can be brought to book for his part in the robberies,” Gqawa added. The two appeared at the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday to face four charges of robbery with a firearm, one of attempted armed robbery, one common robbery charge and one charge of robbery with a weapon other than a firearm. ALSO READ: Man murdered in robbery – police looking for suspect 