 MBOMBELA – Past Tobie de Bruin read from the Scripture and reminded everyone in the filled church that a person’s stay here on earth is temporary. “When we leave this earthly body, we will have a house in Heaven. We must know the Builder of our house in Heaven, the Lord our Saviour, as no one knows what the future will bring. You must trust in the Lord and walk with Him during times of hardship,” he said. Pastor Tobie De Bruin. Kim’s father, Johnny Kerswill, thanked everybody, the doctors, family and community for the overwhelming support they had given him and those close to him. He explained with eyes filled with tears that he took Kimmi in his arms symbolically while in the intensive care unit and laid her in front of God for Him to make a decision. He joked that he would sometime sing to her while they were alone in his vehicle. “Kimmi knew that when I sang, it was always off-key and out of tune, but she enjoyed it thoroughly just because of that,” he said. Johnny Kerswill, the bereaved father. Kim’s sister, Nicole Safwat Darwish, spoke of the bond only siblings who grew up together can have for each other and delivered a heart-wrenching message to a grief-stricken audience. “Today I feel like a bird without wings, but I know I will see her again. Kimmi is a flower in the Lord’s garden. Her personality was fierce and strong and her presence was always known where she went. Her love for people made her special; she never judged anyone. If Kimmi was here she would have said life is bliss, a dream, a challenge; life is love, complete and enjoy it. Not a single day will pass without us thinking of you. I will love you endlessly,” Safwat Darwish concluded. Nicole Safwat Darwish, Kim’s sister; delivered a message of love and hope. Kim’s mother, Quenita Kruger, was overcome with grief and inconsolable. “It is the deepest pain you can image that I am feeling right know; it’s excruciating,” she told Lowvelder . I don’t know how you can get up in the morning after a loss like this, but I know the Lord will be with me and comfort me.” Quenita Kruger, the mother of the deceased. On December 19, Lowvelder reported that Kim had been in a gruesome motor vehicle accident on her way back home from a party she had attended with friends. A friend drove her home, but disaster struck in front of the Crossing Shopping Centre, just before midnight on December 16. ALSO READ: Kim Kerswill kritiek na gru-ongeluk The vehicle in which they were travelling landed underneath the trailer of a truck and was crushed. Medical personnel on the scene had to utilise the Jaws of Life to free Kim from the wreck. She was rushed to Mediclinic Nelspruit in a critical condition, with multiple head and other injuries, but was soon transported to Milpark in Johannesburg for specialised treatment by a neurologist. The spokesman for Nelspruit police, Cap Zandile Gqawa, confirmed that the police is investigating a case of reckless and negligent driving, “because the vehicle crashed into a heavy road vehicle that was busy turning in the intersection.” ALSO READ: Rob Ferreira earns its praise in a failing healthcare system