 SABIE – The provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, released a statement to the effect that a middle-aged woman went for her usual morning jog at 07:00, when she was grabbed from behind by her assailant, a male in his 20s. “He allegedly dragged her forcefully into the nearby bush and instructed her to obey his instructions or risk being killed. He then had non-consensual sex with her. The suspected sex offender did not take any of her belongings,” Hlathi said. Walter Comley, the co-owner of Merry Pebbles Holiday and Caravan Park, confirmed that the woman and her husband were vacationing at their resort. “It happened on the Loerie Hiking Trail, across the river near the Caste Rock Municipal Caravan Park. It did not happen on our property; I only got word of it through the Sabie-Be-Safe WhatsApp group,” Comley explained. ALSO READ: Man suspected of raping toddler and her mother remanded in custody “I did not see or talk to her. She allegedly walked back to our resort after the despicable incident. Her husband then took her to the Sabie Police Station and my sister-in-law assisted in taking her to the nearest hospital. Lesley Froud Turner, the owner of Two Falls View Accommodation, got involved. She is part of the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT) aftercare programme for tourists in distress,” Comley said. Tom Vorster, spokesman for the KLCBT, stated that it was a local tourist who fell victim to this horrendous act. “It is a tragedy and unfortunate that law and order in this country is falling apart.” “We do not recommend that anyone, especially women, go on the hiking trail alone; albeit it be for walking, jogging or even bike riding. It is advisable to always travel in a group when you enter the forest for a hike. We sell permits to the hikers on behalf of another entity, because we are open on weekends and public holidays. We now also provide pepper spray on payment of a deposit to solitary hikers,” Comley stated. The Loerie Trail is a travel route along the Sabie River that takes you through patches of indigenous forest and grassland. ALSO READ: Tourist raped in Graskop According to Hlathi, no arrests have been made. He appeals to anyone with information to contact the investigation officer, Capt Nkentshane Noppie, immediately on 079-499-8809. Noppie and Turner could not be reached for comment at the time of going to press.