 A significant amount of rain has fallen in the Kruger National Park (KNP), and some areas in the Lowveld received as much as 60 millimetres of rain this weekend. The Olifants River on Monday in the Kruger National Park. Photo: Boitu van Niekerk In the KNP, several roads have been closed due to flash floods, and guests had to be evacuated from the Sable Dam Hide. Several vehicles had been flooded and Phalaborwa rangers had to tow out their cars. SANParks confirmed nobody was injured. ALSO READ: KNP rejoices after good rainfall In a statement on its social media platform, SANParks warned that the following roads had been closed due to the rain: the S37, S28, S130, S39 and S90, all gravel roads in the Phalaborwa section, all roads in Kingfisherspruit in the Orpen area, and all gravel roads in the Lower Sabie section.  SANParks urged all visitors to exercise extreme caution when approaching low-lying bridges, and not to use roads with no-entry signs.  The good rainfall, however, did little for the dwindling water levels of the dams in the Lowveld.
Several of the bigger dams are still far under capacity, and even lower than they were this time last year. Both Kwena and Primkop dams are both critically low. Kwena is at approximately 38 per cent, but should be at about 60 to 80 per cent of the full storage capacity (FSC) this time of year. A year ago the dam was at 39 per cent. Primkop is currently at approximately 29 per cent and should be between 80 to 90 per cent FSC. Last year the dam reached about 40 per cent. ALSO READ: Pod of dead hippos in KNP a mystery According to the Department of Water and Sanitation’s website, Da Gama Dam is at approximately 50 per cent FSC. Last year this time it was at about 70 per cent, and the normal capacity for this time of year is around 80 per cent. Klipkopje Dam is only about 19 per cent full, with a normal FSC of 50 per cent for this time of year. A year ago it was at about 45 per cent FSC. Kwena Dam.  The one dam that is above full storage capacity is Vygeboom. Last year this time it was at about 90 per cent and should on average be about 90 to 100 per cent FSC. Yesterday morning the dam boasted a whopping 103 per cent FSC. According to Weather SA, the Lowveld may expect thunderstorms for the latter part of this week through to next Monday.