 MBOMBELA – Angie Motshekga, minister of basic education, announced on Tuesday that the province recorded an increase in the pass rate to 80,3 per cent. READ MORE: Class of 2019 makes history with highest pass rate ever in South Africa “The system is on a rise and this is confirmed by the overall improvement in performance in 2019,” she said. “The system has demonstrated improvement in all areas relating to access, redress, equity, quality, efficiency and inclusivity.” However, the Department of Education’s numbers show that fewer pupils actually pass. In Ehlanzeni, the pass rate has consistently increased over the past three years, while the numbers of passing grade 12s consistently declined. In 2017, 94 103 learners started grade 10. In 2019, 56 833 started grade 12. A total of 43 559 learners ended up writing the final exams, of whom 34 995 passed. In 2018, 35 225 learners passed – 230 more. The DA argues that this puts the real pass rate at closer to 37 per cent. Jane Sithole, the provincial DA’s spokesman on education, asks what happened to the other 59 108. Rob Ferreira’s class of 2019 achieved 102 distinctions. “It means these 59 108 young, uneducated people will be entering the competitive job market this year. The ANC government has failed these young people, many of whom will and are languishing at home and on the streets. “The slow poison of drop-out rates between grades 10 and 12 is eating away at the future of the youth of this country. “The Mpumalanga Department of Education must also focus on improving learner retention and ensure that learners are supported from the time they start school to when they complete grade 12.” Nasreen Fakir collecting her results with her mother Reyhana. However, Prof Hilda F Israel of the University of Mpumalanga points out that she would be cautious to make such conclusions. “The context you are presenting is just numbers, and do not capture each learner’s life story and circumstances. “Much more information would be needed for us to draw legitimate conclusions. Statistics are important, but they have to be analysed against social and economic contexts in order to attach deeper meaning to them.” She added that the phrase “left uneducated” is too strong. “Some teaching and learning would have occurred in their basic education experience. Much deeper analysis is needed, including our social and economic contexts.” There were positives too. A total of 32,7 per cent of pupils also achieved bachelor passes – as opposed to 29,6 per cent last year. Hoërskool Nelspruit was the school in the province with the most bachelor passes. READ MORE: Hoërskool slaag meeste kandidate met universiteitsvrystelling Of the top 10 schools in Mpumalanga, three are located in Ehlanzeni: Komatipoort Akademie, Umlalati Learning Centre in Umjindi and Mgwenya Sidungeni. READ MORE: Komatipoort Akademie is the top achieving school in the Lowveld Ehlanzeni District was the overall best performing district in the province.