 MBOMBELA – The province was also named the second-most successful region in the country at reducing road traffic fatalities for the December 1, 2019 to January 15 period, according to Moeti Mmusi, the provincial spokesperson for the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison (DCSSL). With a reduction of 23 per cent, Mmusi contributed the reduction to the increased cooperation between stakeholders, as well as visible policing in the province. “During the period under review, 144 people were killed in the province as compared to 187 road deaths recorded last year. A further decrease of 36, 51 per cent, was recorded with regards to serious injuries, at only 487 registered severe injuries, in comparison to last year’s 767 road users who were seriously injured as a result of road crashes,” Mmusi explained. He further revealed that the Nkangala district was the worst-performing region of the province, with around 66 fatalities followed by Ehlanzeni with 43 deaths and lastly the territory of Gert Sibande with 35 mortalities. Mmusi disclosed that most of the fatalities were as a result of pedestrians being hit by moving vehicles. That accounted for 46 fatal injuries. ALSO READ: MEC condemns record number of fatalities on Mpumalanga roads over the weekend Nationally, only the Free State trumped Mpumalanga, who experienced a 35 per cent decline in accordance to a statement, issued by government communications on behalf of the Ministry of Transport. The worst performing province was Limpopo, where a 12 per cent increase was recorded. Quite coincidentally, as in Mpumalanga, the majority of road users who died nationally were also pedestrians. In the statement by the transport ministry, Fikile Mbalula stated that the alarming number of people who lost their lives on our roads cost the economy an estimated R168 billion. This reality spurred them into action to re-imagine traffic safety on South Africa’s roads. “At the beginning of the festive season, we set ourselves a target of reducing road crashes and fatalities by 10 per cent during the festive season. We have made substantial progress towards the realisation of this target,” he said. Mbalula would also like to remind all motorists that the Arrive Alive campaign will continue into a year-round road safety programme to uphold the successes attained. “We are now inspired to plan for the Easter period with renewed vigour,” he stressed. Gabisile Tshabalala, the DCSSL MEC, confirmed that although there was a reduction in fatalities in the province, the number of people who died on our roads is still too high. “One road death is one too many. Law enforcement officers must continue to be merciless to misbehaving and reckless drivers, in order to save more lives.” she added. ALSO READ: Six killed in two bakkie accidents in 24 hours 