 MBOMBELA – It is not quite back to work, school and studies for everyone just yet. As the official ambassador of the
Mpumalanga Economic Regulator (MER), current Miss Mpumalanga, Kebalepile Ramafoko has some advice on how to behave regarding gambling and regulatory liquor trading and consumption. As MER ambassador, what precautions do you give to communities on regulatory operation by entertainment outlets like taverns, bars and restaurants in terms of noise levels, operation hours and
underage drinking?
They should stick to what they agreed to when they signed to apply to get a license. If the closing time is at 02:00, they should stop with sales an hour before closing time so that everyone can finish their last drink and leave the
premises. Kebalepile Ramafoko. ALSO READ: In remembrance of Kim Kerswill They should not sell alcohol to people younger than 18 years. Selling alcohol to pregnant women should also be forbidden, for it can cause FASD, making development of the unborn child difficult. Despite the fact that they are running a business, if they see that a customer has already consumed more than what they should, they should not sell alcohol to them any further. Should citizens find places that sell alcohol without a license, it is up to us to report those businesses to the police. Consumers should always remember to know their limit. Say no to drinking and driving. Say no to mixing drugs and alcohol. Drink alcohol responsibly, safe and in a sensible and healthy way. Miss Mpumalanga shared a few tips about responsible gambling and drinking. ALSO READ: Strategies to curb crimes against tourists Guidelines on responsible gambling?
Budget for your entertainment and stick to the budget. Reduce your debts rather than gamble. Make sure that your household finances are up to date. Set strict rules and boundaries, know your limit and do not pull all-nighters at the casino. The SASSA grant money is not for the use of gambling. Cards, dice games, Internet gambling, Chinese roulette and Fafi is a no. These activities are forms of illegal gambling, which can result in tremendous consequences, which is R10 million in fines or 10 years in prison. Only licensed premises under MER can be used for gambling. ALSO READ: Back to school is cool with the right financial advice Remember, gambling is a form of entertainment that involves three elements, namely prize, chance and consideration (entry fee, wager or anything of value). Should one of these elements be removed, the activity is no longer gambling. Should you find yourself addicted to gambling, you can exclude yourself from these activities by a self-exclusion programme that is voluntary under the National Gambling Programme, and you can call them on their help line, 0800-006-008, or you can send a Please Call Me to 076-675-0710.