 A fine totalling R3 000 was imposed on four Kruger National Park (KNP) visitors who exited their vehicles at a lion sighting in the park last week Thursday. Ike Phaahla, GM of communications at KNP, confirmed the incident and said rangers in the Crocodile Bridge area were alerted to the visitors’ irresponsible behaviour. The rangers rushed over to the scene and instructed them to get back into their vehicle. The incident occurred near Crocodile Bridge. ALSO READ: Poachers take rhino battle from bush to courtroom “The park’s rules state that visitors must remain in their vehicles unless in a designated area. The rules also state that no part of the body may protrude from a window or sunroof or any other part of the vehicle. The rules state that vehicle doors should be closed at all times,” Phaahla reminded and said visitors could be killed or badly maimed if animals decided to charge them. “These are wild, not domesticated, animals. Our rules and guidelines clearly state what to do when at sightings, and those who get out of their cars in undesignated areas are lawbreakers. SANParks has a zero tolerance stance against lawlessness.” Facebook user Pauli Potgieter agreed and said: “That’s what I can not understand – big parks like these with dangerous animals must have rules, especially with so many visitors, the rules are made for their own safety, why is it so difficult to abide with simple rules. Like some other person commented, the fine should have been much higher.” Jannie Schoeman wanted even stricter action and said on Facebook:  “Bravo! You’ve made your point. Heroes of Kruger and the bush. Let’s hope you are banned for life.” Thea Hendrikse’s online comment was to the point: “If you want to act like an idiot then you have to pay the price. The fine should have been more and they should have been banned from the park permanently.” ALSO READ: KNP lost 190 rhinos since beginning of 2019 Heidi Hofmeyr Arbie said: “Most people are idiots until someone is bitten by a baboon they fed, or gets gored by a ‘harmless’ antelope or worse, carried off into the bush by a predator. They will always do idiotic things, despite rules or warnings!” Phaahla concluded: “The park officials fight a constant battle with some visitors always trying to push the boundaries of how close they can get to the wildlife. These people often pay the price when elephants flip their vehicles over.
“Just stay in your cars and enjoy the scenery and the animals. They won’t kill you, and we won’t have to kill them afterwards.”