 BARBERTON – In recent weeks this historic town has been rocked by a spate of thefts of plaques which adorn its historically significant buildings. The plaques are usually fixed to a  wall to mark an event and are usually made out of bronze. Thieves have targeted a number of iconic buildings and removed them. Three sites have been targeted, including the Stock Exchange, the Globe Tavern and Stopforth House. Astrid Christianson at the Globe Tavern. ALSO READ:WATCH: Class of 2019’s matric results Astrid Christianson, the Barberton Community Tourism marketing manager, expressed her concern that the thefts may continue and spread to other historical sites in Barberton. “I suspect that the bronze is being melted down and sold at scrapyards. This is the reason we are appealing to scrapyard owners not to buy any stolen materials,” she said. The Stock Exchange facade in Pilgrim Street, along Heritage Walk, had its commemorative plaque stolen a few years ago and Christianson replaced it with a tin sign board. There are fears the Jock of the Bushveld statue may also be targeted. ALSO READ: New Year’s resolutions made easy with an app “I did so in the hope that we are able to preserve the rich history Barberton has. Unfortunately, this has not deterred thieves from targeting other historical buildings.” The most recent casualty is the Globe Tavern which Christianson speculated to have been stolen last Thursday. “I cannot imagine what they would want to do with such a little bit of bronze. We have gone to great lengths to keep the plaques safe and removed a number of them for safekeeping at the museum.” The remaining bronze plaque at the Globe Tavern. ALSO READ: Abnormal amount of intoxicated drivers a concern for provincial police She added that her greatest fear is that the famed Jock of the Bushveld statue outside the municipal offices will also present a target to the thieves. “I believe that Barberton has so much to offer in terms of its history. This history needs to be preserved, so visitors and locals alike can learn about our town’s colourful past and historical significance. The real culprits are the ones buying it.” After a reward of R1 500 was offered for any information about the thefts, a local businessman who wished to remain anonymous, offered R5 000 for any information which could lead to the arrest of the culprits. Community members may contact Christianson on 082-959-6670 with any information.