 MBOMBELA – Emergency officials, the bomb squad and medical staff had to contend with two bomb threats in the space of a week. Authorities were summoned to the Nelspruit SAPS office building on the evening of December 28 after an anonymous bomb threat was received. Brig Leonard Hlathi, the provincial spokesman for the police, confirmed that a warning was received at approximately 19:00 pertaining an explosive device which had allegedly been planted on the eighth floor of the police station. “There was a bomb scare and we have registered a case for that matter,” he said. ALSO READ: Police to investigate bomb scare at station All relevant role players were called to the scene to assist in detecting and defusing the bomb, including the Bomb Disposal Unit and the K9 dog unit, according to Hlathi. “We searched the building thoroughly from top to bottom, but it turned out to be a hoax,” he concluded. A high-ranking police official at the station explained to Lowvelder that an individual had phoned 10111, informing them that there was a bomb in the command centre, also referred to as the “war room” by police members, on the eighth floor. “We will get hold of him. A docket has been opened for further investigation. He wasted precious resources, that could have been used for other things.” The official further revealed that the whole building had to be evacuated to a safe zone in the parking lot, and that they had also cordoned off Bester Street in front of the station. The Nelspruit police station. According to Hlathi, the bomb squad had also responded swiftly to the mall’s bomb scare and declared it safe for the public to enter within a few hours. “Excellent Security Services, who patrolled the mall, received a phone call from a Telkom landline number at approximately 13:20. The caller claimed that a bomb had been planted in the building by three males who were identified by the caller. They told the guard that their intention was not to harm any children, therefore the mall should be evacuated.” Hlathi explained. He told Lowvelder that a suspicious black bag was found next to an ATM, which turned out to be a bag full of clothes that a shopper had left under the supervision of one of the security guards. “We will definitely open cases, as we need to bring these people disrupting businesses to book. We also appeal to the community to come forward with any information about the incidents.” He urged the community to refrain from making silly prank calls that only act to disrupt the community and normal policing activities. Brig Prince Ngobeni, the Nelspruit SAPS station commander, thanked everyone for their cooperation; especially the shoppers and staff who followed the directions of the police without complaining. “As a community Mbombela has have done well and I appreciate everybody’s efforts to make the city a safer place,” he said. ALSO READ: Drop safe bombing heist takes place at Emoyeni Mall The spokesman for Riverside Mall, Beate Dednam, confirmed that Riverside Mall had received a hoax call regarding a bomb planted on its premises. “The bomb squad reacted swiftly and confirmed that the mall was clear. Riverside Mall’s operations have returned to normal,” she said.