 As the old saying goes… Thirty days hath September,
April, June and November;
All the rest have thirty-one,
Excepting February alone
Which hath but twenty-eight, in fine,
Till leap year gives it twenty-nine. According to the website, CultureUK,  the first leap year in the modern sense in Britain was 1752, when 11 days were ‘lost’ from the month September with the adoption of the Gregorian calendar by Britain and its colonies. The calendar was juggled in an effort to make it more accurate and useful. The time it takes for the earth to rotate is 365 ¼ days, but the calendar year is 365 days, hence once every four years to balance this, we have a leap year and an extra day, February 29th. Somya Abrol, writing for India Today, says many of those born on February 29 are considered lucky – the chances of being born on a leap day are 1 in 1461. Those born on February 29 are called ‘leaplings’ or ‘leapers’. And the worldwide population of ‘leapers’ is roughly 50 00 000. ALSO READ: New Year, new you – a workout routine from the comfort of your own home So, here’s recounting some facts and retelling some myths about our four-yearly visitor: 1) Being born on February 29 is extremely unlucky
This myth is prevalent in many parts of the word. The Scottish believed that if you were born on the leap day, your life would have an everlasting stream of suffering. 2) On the leap day, a man can’t refuse a woman’s plea to get married
Women, get ready to pop the question, NOW! According to an old Irish legend, St Brigid struck a deal with St Patrick to allow women to propose to men – and not just the other way around – every four years. This was probably their way of “maintaining balance”. In Scotland, there was even a time when the unmarried Queen Margaret ordered to impose a fine for men who would deny a woman her dream marriage. How we wish that fine could stand true today! 3) You shouldn’t get married/divorced during a leap year
In Greece, couples choose not to get married during a leap year, which makes this year really tragic for those working around it. There’s also a superstition that divorced couples who are separated during a leap year will never find happiness again. Now, that’s heavy! 4) Astrologers believe people born on February 29 have unusual talents
No, not magic powers and the likes… mind you, Superman the beloved DC comic character known for his superhuman strength. According to writer Jerry Siegal, the character was “born” – or bought by DC Comics – on the leap year day of 1938. Anthony, Texas is the self-proclaimed Leap Year Capital of the World. It holds a festival that includes a guided trip to Aztec Cave, “fun at the horse farm” and square dancing. ALSO READ: 10 things you need to keep in your car in case of an emergency