 The Phosa family expressed their sincere gratitude to all community members, political parties across the spectrum, business leaders, friends and families who came from and beyond South Africa, to support them after the passing of their daughter, Moyahabo Phosa, who was buried on Saturday 25 January in Pollen, Limpopo. Expressing his words of gratitude, Dr Phosa said: “No words could ever express our appreciation for the love and support you have shown to us after the passing of our beloved eldest daughter Moya, who was born before I escaped to exile when the apartheid police were out to kill me for my political activities. We are deeply grateful. She was a source of great joy in our lives, and we will miss her fun-loving nature and keen sense of humour.” “I would like to express my humble gratitude in particular to the Deputy President of our country, Comrade DD Mabuza, who during the memorial service delivered a very touching message that narrated the history of our friendship and family ties, reassuring the nation that we need to support each other during trying times.” ALSO READ: Kim se dood nou saak van strafbare manslag “Our heartfelt thanks also goes to Graça Machel, the leaders of our national and provincial government, my son and comrade, Julius Malema and all the people who came in their numbers to support us during the memorial services.” “We also would like to thank former president Kgalema Motlanthe, ministers, deputy ministers, judges, ambassadors, Leaders of the ANC, EFF’s Comrade Gardee, my then legal partners Judge President’s Mojapelo, Legodi and Judge Hans Rampai, and everyone who took time to come to the funeral in my family rural village of Pollen. Most significantly the support we got from the ANC and in particular the Ehlanzeni region, the leadership and its branches who travelled to Limpopo to bid farewell to our child.” “It will in my entire life serve as a constant reminder of the unity and friendship in our country and in particular Mpumalanga.” “Once more thank you for honouring my daughter’s life in such a dignified, sincere and heartfelt manner. Thank you for the messages of condolences from among others, President Ramaphosa and masses of our people. My wife Pinky Phosa and I appreciate all your support.”