 What would end up being known as “the Mercedes of MPVs” went on to be a true success. The 2019 facelift makes for a refreshing feel to the already dominant model. Focal points include a restyled and striking front-end design, a sporty and streamlined cockpit, as well as a new range of alloy wheels and interior trim options. The V-Class facelift has a broader appearance and an even stronger visual presence thanks to its new front end. This comes courtesy of a new bumper design with striking cooling air inlets and a new diamond structure in the radiator grille. ALSO READ: Malalane teacher, accused of sexual assault, to reappear in court The interior of the V-Class follows the trend of modernity and clarity. The trim elements in the piano lacquer, ebony wood, carbon fiber, and brushed aluminum looks remain. With the facelift, the Mercedes-Benz V-Class retains the trusted and proven four-cylinder OM 651 diesel engine in three output variants. The V 200d develops 100kW of power and a maximum torque of 330Nm. The V 220d generates 120kW of power and 380Nm. With an impressive output of 140kW and powerful peak torque of 440Nm, the top-of-the-line V 250d is as powerful as it is agile. The V 250d accelerates from 0 to 100 km/h in an unmatched 9,1 seconds. With Crosswind Assist, which helps the driver to keep the vehicle on track even in the case of gusting crosswinds, and the drowsiness-detection system Attention Assist, the V-Class redefined the safety standards in its segment when it was launched internationally in 2014. The facelift continues to build on this position. Active Brake Assist, which is available for the first time, can detect the risk of a collision with a vehicle ahead, and initially initiates a visual and acoustic warning. If the driver responds, it builds up brake pressure appropriate to the situation. If there is no response, the system actively assists with evasive and braking manoeuvres. In urban traffic, Active Brake Assist also reacts to stationary obstacles or crossing pedestrians. Highbeam Assist Plus is another new safety feature. When in high beam mode, it supports the driver with a consistently optimised illumination of the road. In the event of vehicles in front or oncoming traffic, the LEDs of the main-beam module are partially deactivated, creating a U-shaped cut-out in the cone of light. The remaining areas of the roadway continue to be illuminated with the main-beam headlamps (partial main beam). To ensure the V-Class facelift successfully takes over the reins from its predecessor, Mercedes-Benz Vans South Africa is offering all V-Class facelift customers a complimentary top-up to a 6-year/100 000 km maintenance plan. This is a limited special launch offer, enhancing the standard 5-year/100 000 km maintenance plan. ALSO READ: Phosa family expresses gratitude towards community for their support following death of daughter