This year’s summer season however happens at a time when South Africa is navigating its way through a global health crisis. Various regulations put in place to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic means it’s not life as usual. Staying safe and healthy is a priority for government authorities, businesses, families and individuals. Guzzle has a variety of catalogues with deals and specials from leading retailers where you can find affordable and relevant products to help you stay safe this summer.  Being Covid-19 free must be considered important. In order to minimise the risk and prevent infection, there will still be need to shop for facemasks, sanitisers, disinfecting wipes or disinfecting spray, disposable gloves, etc. For those travelling a little further away keeping your money and documents safe as you travel during the summer season can’t be ignored. A travel wallet is the best way to protect your money and documents and also stay organised. A travel wallet will hold your cash, cards, passport and travel documents like boarding pass, declaration, clearance forms, etc. Summer time is about enjoying the outdoors. Outdoor activities however mean prolonged exposure to the sun which sometimes can be harmful to your health. Sunscreen will help you deal with the negative effects of the suns ultraviolet radiation which include sunburn, wrinkles, dark spots and sagging skin.  Closely linked to sunscreen are shades. Your eyes are irreplaceable and must therefore be protected. Prolonged exposure to the sun, dust, strong winds can damage your eyes in the long term. You don’t necessarily have to buy the most expensive shades on the market but just some affordable shades will spare your eyes from damage. Snacks are a big part of the summer holiday season. Whether you are home or travelling, it’s almost impossible to escape snacking. Reusable snack bags not only assist you to eat in a healthy manner but they also save you money and don’t contribute to environmental degradation. Summer weather can fluctuate from being very hot to being very cool especially on rainy days. Depending on where you are, you will need to either hydrate during hot days or just warm your body with warm water or drinks. An insulated, stainless steel hydro flask water bottle will help you keep drinks cold for up to 24 hours and hot for up to six hours. There is nothing worse than getting sick during your travels because you were bitten by mosquitoes or some other random insect. Even if you are spending your summer home, you just don’t want insects biting you on an easy relaxed evening outdoors. An affordable insect repellent will assist you in this regard by keeping insects off your skin.  Whether you are home or travelling, summer time especially during the end of the year is the perfect time to let your feet breath. Sandals are affordable and will also help reduce feet and leg fatigue during your travels. While the current regulations don’t allow for mass gatherings and outdoor parties, a trip to the park with your immediate family may be a good idea. A cooler box will help you store and carry your beverages in a hygienic and convenient manner. Summer seasons usually come with increased house robberies with criminals capitalising on people who are away from home or just put their guard down while relaxing at home. Keeping your home safe must be of utmost importance. You can put in place an intruder sensor which allows you to detect unwelcome intrusion into your home. Most of these are affordable and easy to install. With your home secured, you need to consider the safety of your vehicle. Statistics from Hippo.com show that about 315 cars go missing every day. A car tracker offers improved chances of car recovery in case of robbery. This is achieved through a computerized security check on the vehicle which sends frequent updates regarding the whereabouts of the car. The products listed about will help you have a happy and safe summer. You can have a safe and stress-free summer season by searching for great deals and specials from retailers countrywide on Guzzle.