Dr Eurika Mogane (PhD MedSc), is well known for her activities involving CANSA, the Red Cross Society of South Africa Governance Ambassador and Science and Technology scholar mentor for Ligwalagwala FM listeners. She is hailed for continuing her dreams in healthcare. She shares the unconventional story with many on her social media accounts of how she was a university dropout because her father could not afford to pay for her studies in BSc medical sciences. “I started studying at Tuks in 2010 and the following year, I was awarded the Golden Key International Honours Society Lifetime Membership. The Golden Key Society is the world’s largest collegiate honour society for graduate and undergraduate students and has strong relationships with over 400 universities around the world.” “It is built on the pillars of academics, leadership and service, and our chapters offer timely support. Members qualify when they are at the top 15 per cent of their class and are given access to a wide range of rewards, scholarships, travel and study abroad opportunities – which I took part in to finish my studies,” Eurika explained. In 2012, she had to drop out of school and face her single father, Lekios, who works as a taxi driver to make ends meet. “I came back home and was broken. I really wanted to be in the medical field, but was not able to secure even an NSFAS loan for support. My eldest sister, Portia, tried hard to pay for my textbooks, while my younger siblings, Lerato and Lebogang, were looking up to me. “There were days where I would have to walk over 50 kilometres to go to the medical campus, because we had to use our own fare to be there. I also had Audrey Ncedekile Mahlalela helping me every now and then with travel from Mbombela to Tshwane – which I am still grateful for to this day,” she said. Eureka shared how she had to resort to braiding other students’ hair so she could have extra money to buy medical equipment, on top of the expensive textbooks that were required. She did not give up studying even after she was home. ALSO READ: Alleged mistreatment of wife at Barberton Hospital leaves husband fuming In the 2013, she completed a community journalism qualification with the University of South Africa. She also has a passion for Neuroscience which started when she was awarded a Distinction Competence Certificate through the University of Pretoria in 2011 for Neuroscience Sports Vision Testing and Training. In 2018, she became a merit achiever at the Unigrad College after completing her national diploma in business management and entrepreneurship – top of her class. Two years later, Eurika managed to complete her International certifications as a Medical Reseacher and Nutritional Therapist, and was nominated as an Honorary Alumni with the Golden Key International Honours Society for the year 2020. She completed online Neuroscience certification studies in 2020 with Duke University and Johns Hopkins University and also holds a number of Competency Diplomas and Certificates in Sports Medicine, Nutrition and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy. She also holds a Good Clinical Practice certification that allowed her to conduct timely medical research. “My spiritual father, Apostle Peter Jones, has played a huge role in me being where I am today. The love and patience from my single father have also been such a major push for me to keep going no matter what. My siblings remind me to never give up and to set a much-needed example. I am thankful for being able to represent Mpumalanga internationally,” Mogane said. Her passion for neuroscience started when she was awarded a competence certificate through the University of Pretoria in 2011 with a certificate in neuroscience sports vision testing and training -NQF level 5. Her continued learning journey, both inside and outside of the lecture room, has earned her a spot as one of the four Key South Africans who assisted an international organisation called Alison to compile and translate the free Covid-19 awareness course into isiZulu. She is now also the Golden Brand Ambassador for Alison, which is one of the world’s largest free learning platforms for education and skills training. She has since encouraged other young individuals to continue grooming their skills even if they are not able to attend classes. “I am now a volunteer Medical Nutritional Therapist, and offer motivational talks and science & technology mentorship to various scholars. Medical Nutritional Therapy (MNT) is an evidence-based, individualised nutrition process meant to help treat certain medical conditions. We instruct individuals to use nutrient-dense items to help them with reducing risks or lowering complications of existing diseases,” Mogane concluded. For more information on MNT and her journey, people may contact Mogane directly on 082-323-9761 or tharikamhealth@gmail.com. ALSO READ: Dodgy land deal netts a cool R19 million