An unlikely group of now close friends, made up of local business people and school principals, mainly from KaBokweni, voluntarily took part in the Partners for Possibility (PfP) leadership development programme. The glamorous event, organised by the group’s learning process facilitator – local businesswoman, Mel Tomlinson, was hosted at Tindlovu at the Gardens. Principal, Sienna Sibamba of Gutjwa Primary, testified to the way her school has become a “magnet for gifts” and has during this challenging year received 50m² of paving from Biaton Paving, 18 waterborne toilets from Tiger Brands Foundation, as well as toilets from Rocla, while the parents of the pupils raised funds and built two classrooms and Gutjwa erected a sentry house at the school gate. Sibamba was pleased that none of her staff members were absent due to Covid-19, and puts this down to skills she learned on the programme. Roy Wakefield, owner of Wendy Lane and partner to Jabulani Ndlovu of Sifundlela Primary, spoke of how proud he was of his partners’ growth and his ability to lead his school through these challenging times in a gentle, yet powerful way. “Business leaders are not required to make any financial or material donations directly to the schools they are partnering with, but rather to impart business skills and knowledge and walk alongside their partners, offering an open heart and a listening ear. All business leaders felt impacted by the programme and find that their own ability to listen, be inclusive, become more empathetic and understanding and see things from a new perspective developed significantly,” said Tomlinson. ALSO READ: Mbombela songbird spoils the elderly During the year, partners attend three workshops together: Time to Think, Flawless Consulting and Community Building. These were placed at specific intervals to support them in navigating the next leg of the journey. The workshops were applicable both to the business leaders and the principals, and soon business leaders stood in awe of the enormous task these principals had in an under-resourced, complex environments. “The pandemic brought a special set of challenges to the school environment and our rural schools did not have the luxury of moving to online platforms, with many children not having any access to technology. This will, in many years to come, further widen the gap between the poor and the priviledged,” she said. Nel 4 was the fourth PfP circle to run in the Lowveld, with a fifth currently in its sixth month. The programme has been running for 10 years in South Africa under the leadership of Dr Louise van Rhyn, and has been recognised for touching more than a million lives through the One Million Lives Club. In 2019, PfP, Symphonia, won the KLCBT NGO award. For more information about this unique and empowering active citizenship programme, call Tomlinson on 082-888-9676 or visit www.p4pSA.org. ALSO READ: Find your Christmas gifts early at the Farmer’s Market at Sonpark