At that same time more than 31 years ago, the consultancy De Goede Finans was established. The company specialised in tax consultation, bookkeeping, investments, financing and insurance. André says from the offset, his organisation was put in place to assist its clients and to be part of a community, not only by offering professional service, but also to help where need exists.  As early as 1993, the Hoop vir Hoop charity initiative was formed with the purpose of gathering clothing and blankets for underprivileged children and families. In this regard, André still likes to thank his partner in business, Lukas Swart and Cecilia Coetzee from the local branch of Child Welfare. He also reminisces about the time they staged a competition for the best accounting candidate in old Nelspruit and White River. The reason was to stimulate accounting as a career choice. All the schools from these towns participated and those days, the winner received R500 in cash and a trophy. Hoërskool Nelspruit’s Lieschen Odendaal was the first winner of the competition. She applied to study BCom in Accounting.  Another community initiative is the De Goede Top-10 Schools Chess Tournament that has been sponsored since 1990 and is still going strong. Other highlights André recalls over the years were when the offices were moved in April 1998 from his house at 7 Marloth Street to the current address at 22 Marloth Street.  “On September 1, 1989, the first 10 years were celebrated and after 13 years of success we changed our name to De Goede Finance Universe in 2002. We also welcomed two partners, Reggie Kalis and Leonora da Cruz, with Annetjie Olivier who joined our team as our financial director in 2004,” he recalls.  “This year, Goede Finance Universe celebrates 31 years of success. We have expanded and a new Planet was discovered, De Goede Networking, with our new partner, Jean de Goede, and his team. “De Goede Finance Universe has the following planets: De Goede Planet, Short Term Insurance, Life Insurance, Hiring and Staffing, Pastel Training Centre and Networking (IT Solutions).” In celebrating these years of success as a trusted local consultancy and service provider, André would like to thank all the clients who have been a part of the De Goede Finance Universe family. “Part of our success is employees’ commitment to the company. De Goede attributes the success of its business to gradual growth. My biggest gift over the 31 years was to see the people around me grow. The value of one’s life is measured by the value you add to the lives of others. People say the sky is the limit; we say the next financial planet is still to be discovered.”  Visit De Goede Finance Universe at 22 Marloth Street, Mbombela.      