The ceremony was attended by officials from the Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality (FTLM), management of Anglo American and members from the Ga Mawela Mankge Community Property Association. The Ga Mawela Mankge Bridge is an important infrastructure for the communities. It is located at Ga Mawela Mankge, St George Farm. For many years community members who reside on either side of the bridge had to cross the river to visit each other, access schools, hospitals, clinics, churches and other public amenities.  This challenge left communities frustrated. Pupils missed school during the rainy season. Head of corporate affairs at Anglo American Platinum, Yvonne Mfolo, said the bridge is one of the many projects they are doing in local communities. “We are happy with the completion of this project. Goods and people will travel faster, people will be easily reached and relatives will easily connect. This project will also improve the local economy.”  Mfolo said that during the construction more than 20 jobs were created. “The bridge was erected by two local companies, Mathomayo Investment Holding and Gabolekane Pty Ltd, which are owned by a Ga Mawela resident. We also bought materials from our local suppliers.” Acting mayor of the FTLM, Cllr Ephraim Hlatswayo, applauded Anglo for the sterling job.  “We appreciate the social responsibility from Anglo. Let it keep the good work it is doing. Phillip Mankge represented the communities. He thanked Anglo for providing a well-constructed bridge. He said the villagers recall terrifying stories of crossing the overflowing river, having to take off their clothes which stripped them off their dignity.  “Anglo has been supportive of the Ga Mawela community. It funded agricultural projects and also provided tourism learnerships to locals. We plead Anglo to improve our six-kilometre gravel road in our village.”  In recent years, Anglo American Platinum assisted in infrastructure development in the Sekhukhune District Municipality (SDM). This included the construction of clinics, roads, mast lights and electrifying homes. 