The Paul family are in mourning following the untimely death of their sister, Shana (28), on Tuesday morning. According to eyewitnesses, Shana walked to a house in Naudé Street in Burgerville and returned home, bleeding profusely from her nose and mouth. A long-time Burgerville resident, Cynthia van Wyk-Khushaldas, who was on the scene with other residents, tried to assist Shana, but her efforts were in vain as she passed away at about 08:30. “We contacted the police who cordoned off the scene as she died just outside the entrance to the family home. An ambulance arrived at the scene and one of the paramedics declared Shana dead, adding that she had died of unnatural causes and that the forensic pathologist would need to remove her remains,” Van Wyk-Khushaldas said. ALSO READ:Bheki Cele says Mpumalanga crime stats need to change Members of the public were outraged when the forensic pathologist only arrived at the scene at approximately 13:23, leaving the deceased mother’s covered body outside the yard. “This is inhumane, we feel that they should have arrived sooner because no human being deserves the indignity the family suffered after numerous calls were made. “Shana’s body lay in full view of the children in the community and the long waiting period left the family traumatised,” she added. ALSO READ: Dodgy land deal saga deepens Another resident, Bruno Jaftha, questioned whether the delay in collecting Shana’s body was as a result of her not being a person of means. “Is this how you are treated if you have no money?” he asked. After the body was collected, the small community held an impromptu meeting to discuss how to help the family with the funeral arrangements. The meeting was chaired by Carley Shongwe of the Burgerville Community Development Committee and elicited a number of pledges from residents willing to assist. ALSO READ: Fifth suspect in court over allegedly defrauding SARS A visibly distraught Shanaaz Paul, who is Shana’s older sister, expressed her gratitude for the community’s support and thanked all who were willing to help. “My sister’s sudden passing will leave a void in our hearts, but I am grateful for everyone’s aid, especially the people who came out and tried helping when she complained about being unable to breathe. “We are also thankful that the Ward 42 councillor, Christopher Mongezi, assisted with regard to the numerous phone calls to the police and is helping with the funeral arrangements,” she said. ALSO READ: Alleged mistreatment of wife at Barberton Hospital leaves husband fuming While Burgerville residents have been reaching out to assist the Pauls, more needs to be done in terms of helping with Shana’s infant son who was still breastfeeding. Lowvelder contacted the Department of Health’s spokesperson, Dumisani Malamulele. He said the department would look into why there had been such a long delay by the forensic pathologist to collect the body. The community requests that anyone who may be able to assist financially, make a contribution by contacting Lynette Green on 082-346-5592.