From the rare safari in national parks dotted around the country, historical sites to leisure resorts, local and international tourists are spoilt for choice when it comes to choosing what’s best. Choosing and booking a destination often comes down to key factors such as security, affordability, diversity of activities and generally the location of the destination. In the current Covid-19 climate, travellers are now even more careful when travelling. Above all the other reasons, travellers want to be sure their host will provide a healthy environment which does not expose them to Covid-19.  One travel accommodation host which has earned local and international acclaim for being top-notch luxury accommodation venue is Spanish farm. Spanish farm is an embodiment of widely acknowledged South African hospitality which is a healthy mix of excellent luxury accommodation, tasty cuisine and diversity of activities and attractions. These Villas are simply breath-taking and are set in the Country’s tourism hub. The panoramic views coupled with a pristine and well-maintained environment and lush gardens amplify the natural beauty of this hidden jewel of a destination. This ranks among the best luxury hotels in somerset west. The convenience of this accommodation makes it the ideal host for local and international travellers who fly into Western Cape. Spanish Farm is located about 20 minutes’ drive from Cape Town International Airport and about 40 minutes’ drive from Cape Town. It’s also rare to find luxury accommodation with an easy reach between Strand, Stellenbosch and Gordon’s Bay.  When it comes to your choice of rooms, you will be spoilt for choice between Guesthouse Room 1, Guesthouse Room 2, Guesthouse Room 3, Rose Cottage, Ground Floor Apartment, 2 Bedroom Villa, Honeymoon Villa and Main Villa. Guesthouse Room 1 has a queen-sized bed and an en-suite bathroom with a shower. The room leads onto a private patio. Guesthouse Room 2 has twin extra length beds and has an en-suite bathroom complete with double basins with a shower. It leads onto a private patio. Guesthouse Room 3 has a king-size poster extra length bed, an en-suite bathroom with an inside shower and a refreshing outside shower. This room has an intimate private patio. Rose Cottage is a cute self-catering cottage. The bedroom has a queen-sized poster extra length bed, a kitchenette which is fully equipped, complete with fridge and a stovetop. The unit has a Nespresso coffee machine, a large walk-in shower, and a refreshing outside shower as well. There are lovely views of the Helderberg mountain from the cottage. There is also a Jacuzzi available as an optional extra. The Ground Floor Apartment is a Self-Catering unit that features an Open Plan Lounge, fully equipped Kitchenette and Bedroom with a separate Dressing Room. This 2 Bedroom Villa has comfortable extra length twin beds which are well complemented by reading lights on the headboard. The en suite bathroom has been designed to meet first-class bathing facility standards. The unit also provides the convenience of accessing the outdoor private garden with ease right from the doorsteps. The Honeymoon Villa is a Self-Catering unit that features Bedroom with a king-size bed and En-Suite Bathroom. This unit is architecturally designed to showcase the magnificent sea views. The Honeymoon Villa has a dining room, a fully equipped kitchen and a lounge with a slow combustion fireplace that leads onto the wooden deck which surrounds the nature pool. The exquisite Main Villa features 2 luxury suites and showcases both mountain and panoramic sea views. Suite 1 has a King Size bed. The en-suite bathroom has a large walk-in shower and a bath. Suite 2 has twin beds and direct access to the deck. The Villa also offers a fully equipped kitchen, a large Dining Room, a Lounge and access to a Private Swimming Pool and Gym. Some of the facilities at the Spanish Farm include air conditioning & heating, bath robes, beach towels, braai facilities, complimentary toiletries, a DStv connected flat-screen TV, a hair dryer, Nespresso, access to a private patio, pure cotton percale, a sauna, a cosy sun deck, a clean swimming pool, under floor heating and Wi-Fi. At the Spanish Farm, you are never short of activities and great fun to enjoy. You can choose to relax by the beach, sunbath and also watch or participate in surfing and other water sports activities, go bird Watching and do some nature walking to see and enjoy rare bird species, cycle along very secure local streets, do some fishing, you can enjoy a round of golf in a nearby world-class golfing facilities, go hiking, kayaking or simply get a glimpse of the nature pool. The Somerset Mall is not far from the Spanish farm with a variety of shopping stores and activities. You can also explore the Helderberg Nature reserve, Cheetah Outreach which is a preservation centre, take a moment for some golf at the award-winning Erinvale Golf Estate, visit Lourensford night market, check out Route 44 Market which offers exciting memorabilia, indulge yourself in the wine and olives at Hidden Valley Wines, etc This year’s festive season is set to be memorable and just the perfect way to end what has been a difficult year. Spanish Farm is the perfect setting to end the year on a high in a secure, exciting and luxurious accommodation venue. As you plan to visit Cape Town, let Spanish Farm be your first contact on Tel: +27 (0) 21 852 7352 or Email:info@spanishfarm.co.za.