He says information on how to prevent mosquito bites, determining whether preventative medicine is necessary, selecting the best to use, including the interactions between meds and other treatments, the benefits and risks of the alternatives are all things that your pharmacist can help you with. “In South Africa, malaria transmission occurs in the north-eastern part of the country, mainly in the low altitude (below 1 000 metres above sea level) areas of Limpopo, Mpumalanga and northern KwaZulu-Natal. “Malaria is distinctly seasonal in South Africa, with the highest risk being during the wet summer months (September to May).” He mentions that both travellers to and residents in malaria areas are at risk of getting malaria. All general measures should be taken to avoid mosquito bites throughout the year, even in low malaria transmission areas. “The choice of prevention recommended is determined by resistance patterns against older drugs, together with patient factors, including other chronic diseases, drug interactions and your weight. “In addition to effective drugs being taken whenever and wherever the risks of acquiring malaria exceed the probability of experiencing serious side effects to the medicine. “The risk of acquiring malaria is determined by the malaria transmission intensity in the area, season of visit, length of stay, type of accommodation, and likely activities between dusk and dawn.” People in malaria areas must be made aware that malaria should be considered with any fever occurring within one week to six months after visiting a malaria area, regardless of whether or not medicine was taken or mosquitoes were seen. Medical assistance at a healthcare facility should be sought within 24 hours of onset of illness, as early effective treatment is essential to prevent progression to potentially fatal severe malaria. “Children younger than five years are the most vulnerable group affected by malaria. In 2018, they accounted for 67% of all malaria deaths worldwide according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). “Although malaria case incidence has decreased globally by 21%, there is still a significant risk of infection.” Prevention of mosquito bites between dusk and dawn is the first line of defence against malaria. Measures to prevent mosquito bites include sleeping under nets, using protective clothing, spraying insecticides (like Doom) and insect repellents (like Peaceful Sleep or Tabard). “International travellers must take preventive medication (chemoprophylaxis) prior to, during, and upon return from their travels. This will protect them and avoid epidemics from occurring in other countries. “Pregnant women should avoid travelling to areas where malaria transmission occurs, and parents are advised not to take infants or young children. “When travel cannot be avoided, it is very important to take effective preventive measures against malaria.”