The Department of Education (DoE) received R490,8 million for the implementation of the Presidential Employment Initiative. This has sparked confusion and questions among most unemployed qualified teachers, unemployed youth and former substitute educators. The posts are aimed at assistant teachers’ level and do not require a teaching qualification. According to one of the educators who applied, the process is frustrating because they do not know how they will choose the candidates. “We were told that they do not need any teaching qualifications although I am hoping that they consider the unemployed qualified teachers first. Another challenge is that there is an age limit, which is 18 to 35 years. This means unemployed qualified teachers who are over 35 will not be considered. “I sent out my application and selected schools closer to my home, but I have not received any response. I am one of the unpaid substitute teachers who worked during lockdown and I am praying to get a chance to be part of the initiative,” she said. The MEC for finance, economic development and tourism, Pat Ngomane, made the announcement about the funds during the adjustment budget speech last week. Some of the applicants raised their concern on Facebook, citing that they had received calls from local schools to submit their documents, however, they have not gotten any feedback. Some said they received calls informing that they should come for interviews and others have already gone through the process, but according to the comments in the post there are no appointments yet. ALSO IN PHOTOS: Face-painting and family fun in aid of White River SPCA Jasper Zwane, spokesperson for the DoE, said, “The allocation for the Presidential Employment Initiative is ring-fenced as such the department will be in a position to fulfill its obligations in this regard. Those who are legible for appointment in line with the provided requirements will be duly considered.” ALSO READ: Find your Christmas gifts early at the Farmer’s Market at Sonpark Walter Hlayise, provincial secretary of the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union, said, “It should be clear that the initiative funds will not be used to settle money owed to the substitutes teachers.” Hlayise said the department has committed to paying the substitute teachers this week.