Guzzle has a galore of catalogues from leading retailers where you can find in-season DIY items. Try out these DIY hacks to keep you cool this summer: Everyone knows that pillows just become irritatingly hot and unbearable during hot days. Throwing them away is not the solution but cooling them is. You can do this by stuffing a pillow in a plastic bag and depositing in the fridge for a limited amount of time. When you take it out, it will give you that much needed cooling effect. If the temperature goes a few notches up in the middle of the night, you can throw the bed sheets in cold wate. To stop the sheets from dripping and messing your bed, hang them or throw them in the dryer. Make sure they are still a little damp so that they can act as a cooling mechanism when you sleep. On hot days, sometimes all you wish for is some cold water on your skin and body. Without a swimming pool and sea to swim in, you can create a sprinkler in your garden. You do this by just poking holes in a water bottle, tie it at the end of the hosepipe and you can stand in front of it and cool off. Children in particular who are the worst affected by heat will love to play around the sprinkler. Many people prefer to chew ice during hot days to cool off but that doesn’t really cool off the entire body. To cool off your entire body, you can use ice water in a water bottle and use it pretty much the same way you use a hot water bottle. A great amount of heat which enters the living environment comes from outside. You can reduce the amount of heat in your home by simply closing windows especially when you are not home. You can also put some light-coloured curtains, blinds, shades to block out direct sunlight. The other way you can take care of the windows is to put a very dump cloth by the windows, the heat from outside will cause rapid evaporation which results in the creation of a cooling air stream. Plants in and around your home play critical roles of not only providing much needed oxygen but they also help in cooling the environment. You can plant trees in certain areas around your home in order for them to block direct sunlight from hitting you. Not only do they block sunlight but as the wind blows, they create an added cooling effect. The DIY hacks listed above if well applied will keep you cool this summer. You can make this summer season cool and refreshing by buying affordable and suitable DIY items from Guzzle.