South Africa ranks 30th on the list of water-scarce countries in the world, according to the World-Wide Fund for Nature. As a result, clean, purified water is a highly sought-after commodity that is needed to sustain human life. This reality hit home for 2 Care for Water founders Alta Steinhobel and Deniël Pruis, especially after severe water restrictions were imposed in Cape Town after a prolonged period of drought. “We had a dream to make a positive contribution to the world and amidst the water restrictions in Cape Town, the idea was born to give the world something it is lacking, and that is pure water,” Pruis said. ALSO READ: Snares: An inhumane loss of animal life To highlight the importance of caring for water and to introduce a clearer understanding of the quality of water Lowvelders consume, 2 Care 4 Water hosted a cheese and wine evening at its premises at 5 Kiepersol Street, Westacres, last Thursday. The event drew a number of business people from the retail sector to gain a deeper insight into the processes involved in water purification that is healthy and sustainable. “The national lockdown had a detrimental impact on local businesses and 2 Care 4 Water was hit hard as many of the businesses we supply with ice and water were closed for that period. ALSO READ: GALLERY: Lowveld Ramblers hike along a South African Natural Heritage Site “Once the restrictions were lifted, 2 Care 4 Water remained resolute to supply healthy water and we appointed a general manager,Armand Coetser, to make further inroads in terms of distribution to retail groups,” she explained. Coetser shares the vision that is central to 2 Care 4 Water’s philosophy. “We care about people and drinking water with an alkalinity of between eight to nine pH holds enormous health benefits. So, it’s all about what you put into the water, because water is not only for hydration,” said Coetser. ALSO READ: IN PHOTOS: Year-end art exhibition shows talent of all ages Before wading into uncharted waters, Steinhobel and Pruis conducted comprehensive research around reverse osmosis, a process that purifies water by removing ions, unwanted molecules and other particles from drinking water. This process, she explained, meant that for every one litre of purified water, an additional one litre of water is wasted. Not content to waste a drop, the pair roped in the services of a car-wash service that collects between 5 000 and 10 000 litres of unusable water to conduct its business. At the launch of the 750ml and one litre water bottles, Coetser took visitors on a walk around the spotless facility to explain the process from storage to purification and bottling. ALSO READ: Lowvelder earns international golden award “During the Covid-19 pandemic, 2 Care 4 Water is about caring for water through the provision of a quality, healthy product and keeping our people and community healthy,” he concluded.