Trans African Concessions (TRAC) is thus conducting major preparations throughout its 570-kilometre road to prevent major traffic delays and backlogs often experienced during the end-of-year holiday period. To accommodate the expected surge in traffic, TRAC will ensure that all N4 toll plazas are fully staffed on earmarked days and will also conduct double route patrols on specific days during the holiday period. “In addition, its roadside assistance and 24-hour Helpdesk teams will be on full alert throughout this period. Traffic on the N4 Toll Route is expected to peak on December 11, 15, 18, 23 and 24 and again on January 3,” said TRAC’s spokesman, Solange Soares. On December 11, double patrols started as a preventative measure against any traffic disruptions. On the other days, double route patrols and road standbys will be done. These road standbys will see TRACAssist, in collaboration with emergency services such as the SAPS, paramedics, fire and rescue and provincial traffic, deployed to strategic points along the route – Bronkhorstspruit, Middelburg, Milly’s, Mbombela (Nelspruit), Hectorspruit, Komatipoort and Matola Weighbridge (Mozambique) – to enhance incident/accident support. Road users should note that delays and traffic congestion are expected near and at the Lebombo and Ressano Garcia border posts in Komatipoort and therefore those travelling between South Africa and Mozambique are urged to plan their trips accordingly. TRAC also reminds the public that although delays at the border impact traffic flow on the N4, border clearing processes do not fall under TRAC’s jurisdiction and it therefore cannot be held liable for, or assist with, backlogs relating to this issue. TRAC has however committed to helping with certain logistical requirements that are expected to improve traffic flow during busy times. The following border traffic management operations came into effect on December 13: South Africa (eastbound) • A traffic control point at Coopersdal, where all vehicles are to come to a dead stop. Be patient and expect an approximate 30-minute delay. • Taxis will be diverted to the old Komatipoort Airfield, which has been prepped by TRAC to accommodate over 1 000 vehicles at a time. Clearing will be done at this facility and taxis will then be escorted to the border. • Commercial vehicles (trucks) will be redirected onto the Coopersdal road (R582) and Strydomsblok, to be processed at KM 7. • Buses will also be cleared at KM 7. • Private vehicles must proceed straight on the N4, to the Lebombo Border Post. These road users are urged to stay in the left lane, after passing the BP garage, as the right lane will be reserved for trucks, convoys and official vehicles. • To avoid unnecessary traffic on the route, vehicles en route to Komatipoort, Kruger National Park or Ngwenya Lodge are advised to use the Tenbosch turnoff. Mozambique (westbound) • There will be three lanes of traffic in the westbound lane and one lane in the opposite direction. • There will be five stop areas, one next to Moamba, for observation purposes only, one compulsory stop at KM 14 and another one next to the cemetery in Ressano Garcia. • At the remaining two locations, traffic will be split as follows: Main dispatching of travellers at KM 4 and KM 7. Organising of police escort at KM 4. • Each control point will be manned by the police, customs and immigration officials. • Public transport terminal will be transferred to the Ressano Garcia Border Post. TRAC is also pleased to announce that construction on the N4 Toll Route will be on hold during the construction sector’s annual leave period between December 19 2020 and January 5 2021. However, all construction areas will still be deemed active and road users are urged to be cautious and obey road signage. “The safety and well-being of the N4 Toll Route’s road users is TRAC’s primary concern and we urge everyone using its beautiful route this holiday season to make full use of the TRAC Helpdesk by calling or sending a WhatsApp to 0800-87-22-64 for quick, effective assistance for any problem. TRAC further encourages road users to stay abreast of news about the route, throughout the festive season, by following it on Twitter @TRACN4route, Facebook @TRACN4 or logging onto our website www.tracn4.co.za,” Soares concluded.