The Nelspruit SPCA got down and dirty for a vulnerable puppy in Mataffin at the beginning of last week. The organisation received a call to assist the pup that had fallen into a long drop toilet and got stuck. “The poor little guy must have been terrified,” the SPCA commented on the situation.  ALSO READ: Snares: An inhumane loss of animal life Upon its arrival, one member got the puppy out of the toilet whereafter another attempted to get him cleaned up at a nearby tap – but to little avail.  “At the kennels we gave him a bath, and another one, and another one.” After operation clean-up, they had mostly gotten rid of the smell. The ritual was repeated again the following day to ensure the canine was squeaky clean.  Staff said, “He is now safe in our kennels, and was provided with a soft bed and proper food so he can recover from his ordeal.” ALSO READ: Zero tolerance on Mpumalanga’s roads On the morning of December 13, the Nelspruit SPCA received a call about a puppy that was stuck under a roundabout on a playground in Matsulu. The SPCA’s staff members’ greatest concern upon receiving the call was possible injuries, overheating and dehydration, considering they were about 40 minutes from the location.  “We were met by Luda Mtyeka and Michael Sona who waited for us and took us to the spot in a remote picnic area on the banks of the Crocodile River. Their kindness saved a lot of time, as it would have taken us an eternity to find the place,” the Nelspruit SPCA said on its Facebook page. ALSO READ: Bheki Cele says Mpumalanga crime stats need to change  They found the puppy in distress and proceeded with caution as the roundabout was quite unstable. “We managed to remove him and fortunately there were no apparent injuries or broken limbs.  He was just thirsty, stressed and covered in ticks and fleas.” At the kennels, he received a bath, treatment for ticks and fleas, a bed and food. ALSO READ: Kruger Lowveld Tourism concerned about non-compliance regarding Covid-19 regulations “A huge thank you to Luda and Michael for going the extra mile to save this precious little soul. The involvement and assistance of our community is vital.  “As the name of the picnic spot is Mandela Park, we named him Nelson. He will be closely monitored to address any health concerns,” the organisation said.