Drowning is one of the major causes of accidents resulting in serious injury and death in children. Parents should not be fooled into thinking that their child is safe just because they knows how to swim. In a lot of these cases accidents happened even though the child knew swimming. Accidents in the swimming pool can happen very suddenly without warning. It is very important that all parents follow these basic safety precautions especially if there is a swimming pool at home. Here are 11 tips on how to prevent these accidents from happening.1. Never allow your child to swim alone without any adult supervision. It is quite common to develop a cramp underwater, or for accidents like hitting your head while diving to occur. It is very important that there should be persons around to help in such situations.2. Do not allow children who cannot swim, in or around the pool. For good pool safety make sure that all kids above the age of four attend a certified swimming class, or at least learn basic flotation techniques and life saving techniques in case of accidents.3. Children younger than six should always be accompanied by their parents in the pool.4. Enclose your pool with high fences which can be locked. Do not leave the pool open and accessible since children can fall inside. Keep your pool safe and keep your kids away from the pool.5. A child that falls into the pool will not make a big enough splash in the water for you to hear, so install a warning alarm that can be purchased from suppliers of pool products.6. Avoid leaving your kids alone even with small portable pools or water bodies like buckets, fountains, and barrels. Children can also drown in these small bodies of water.7. In case of a backyard swimming pool, make sure that the cover of the pool is completely lifted over the pool. Do not partially open the pool. Also make sure that your child does not walk over the pool cover.8. Spas and Hot Tubs must also be avoided, especially in the case of younger children who are susceptible to overheating.9. For good pool safety, you can make sure that there is always a lifesaving flotation device handy near the pool.10. Make sure that you know basic first-aid and CPR in case of an emergency.11. Make sure that you have the emergency number 0861-086-911 saved on your phone for any emergencies. Quick guide to CPR:Before giving CPR1. Check the scene and the person. Make sure the scene is safe, then tap the person on the shoulder and shout “Are you okay?” to ensure that the person needs help.2. Call an ambulance for assistance.3. Open the airway. With the person lying on his or her back, tilt the head back slightly to lift the chin.4. Check for breathing. Listen carefully, for no more than 10 seconds, for sounds of breathing. Occasional gasping sounds do not equate to breathing. If there is no breathing begin CPR. CPR steps1. Push hard, push fast. Place your hands, one on top of the other, in the middle of the chest. Use your body weight to help you administer 30 compressions that are at least five centimetres deep and delivered at a rate of at least 100 compressions per minute.2. Deliver rescue breaths. With the person’s head tilted back slightly and the chin lifted, pinch the nose shut and place your mouth over the person’s mouth to make a complete seal. Blow into the person’s mouth to make the chest rise. Deliver two rescue breaths, then continue compressions.3. Continue CPR steps. Keep performing cycles of chest compressions and breathing until the person exhibits signs of life, such as breathing or EMS or a trained medical responder arrives on scene.