This is a worrying reality because along with playing a significant role in stabilising the economy, it is an industry that employs well over 1.5 million South Africans. Throughout the lockdown period, Stats SA revealed that the travel and tourism sector lost, on average, R22.7 billion a month. As staggering as these statistics are, the good news is that now that restrictions have been gradually eased, the upward battle to rebuild what was lost can begin. This is why South Africans are urged to continue supporting local tourism this festive season, despite international borders also reopening. By simply planning a domestic holiday to remember, you can do your part in powering a steady revival. With that in mind, here is a quick breakdown of some of the most notable destinations to add to your itinerary if you are interested in exploring the country by car and taking a trip down to the Lowveld, in particular. Soak up the beauty of the South African bush and see if you can spot the ‘Big 5’ on a safari game drive through the expansive Kruger National Park. Along with classic safari favourites, the National Park is also home to its fair share of rare and endangered species, including the honey badger, wild dog, and the lappet-faced vulture. Elephant Whisperers is a haven for five beautiful elephants and is known to offer inquisitive visitors interactive experiences with these gentle giants. Some activities to look forward to include petting and feeding the elephants, going on a scenic stroll alongside them, and saddling up for a ride and a mesmeric bird’s eye view of the wonderful sanctuary. You can also organise to savour some sundowners after a long day spent bonding with the animals. Tourists hoping to get a taste of traditional culture in the Lowveld region should make a beeline for Shangana Cultural Village in Hazyview. You will step right into the tribe of the Shangaan people, marvel at their picturesque village, and watch in awe as the craftsmen get to work making their wares. Visitors can choose between a daytime tour, a lunchtime tour, and an evening festival. The latter is a particularly memorable experience as it is hosted around a vibrant fire by the Chief himself. No road trip with friends or family would be complete without a visit to an Engen Wimpy pit stop en route to your final destination. Engen Wimpy has, after all, been a huge part of memorable holidays and road trips for over 40 years. The partnership allows you to simultaneously fill up your car and your tummy by digging into hearty South African breakfasts, juicy burgers, aromatic cups of coffee, and milkshakes galore. Support local and rediscover the magic that our country has to offer. Rest assured that there are countless wonders to explore and adventures to be had regardless of where you choose to wander.