 Hloni Project teacher, Alexandra Zandamela, has started giving lessons to learners at a class set up behind the school hall. The primary school started a project to teach grade R learners how to read, speak and write in English to better prepare them for success in grade four. The learners showed guests at the school grounds what they had been taught so far. The learners warmly welcomed Hloni Project partners by singing a Hloni song with demonstrations. The guests visited the school to view the Hloni facility and were briefed on the long-term goal for the project.  Dennis Wevell, Partners for Possibility partner to the school’s principal, told guests that the learners will be split into small groups. “This is so we can identify children with special needs, such as those in need of social workers and psychological therapists.” He said they will be providing intervention to the learners who need it. Wevell said one of the long-term goals is that the Hloni Project be registered as an non-profit organisation. “We want to duplicate Hloni in schools that need the help. We also want John Mdluli Primary School to be the training centre. But, the schools that are in need must ask for assistance.” “The Hloni Project will reduce inequality between learners in townships and rural areas,” said Dr Louise van Rhyn, founder and CEO of Partners for Possibility. ALSO WATCH: Grade Rs will learn English in Hloni, the immobile bus “The learners will be prepared up to the same level and they will be ready for grade one. This means that they are more likely to be able to read for meaning by the end of grade three and they will have a much better chance of passing matric.” Stanley Charles, vice principal, explained, “The Hloni Project has renewed the energy of parents, children and teachers at the school. This project builds character and boosts learners’ esteem. The teachers are encouraged to invest in the learners, as they see all eyes are on them.” Earlier in the month the primary school hosted the grade R parents for an opening during which they explained the project to parents and how it will assist learners. They informed parents what is expected of them to assist them and the learners. They were also taken on a tour of the bus. ALSO WATCH: Social media and cyberbullying “Kids who will be part of the Hloni project will have access to educational toys, such as puzzles, blocks and snakes and ladders,” said Van Rhyn. “The kids learn in this way. I hope more people will get involved, even if it is just to read stories to the little ones.” Sibongile Sibuyi, principal of John Mdluli Primary School, thanked everyone who has lent support to the project. The Hloni bus’ surroundings are still undergoing development.