 According to Solange Soares, spokesperson of TRAC N4, the closure was a result of two accidents. An SAPS vehicle went off the road at Poplar Creek, resulting in three injuries. A TRAC N4 vehicle arrived at the scene shortly after the accident happened and, while it was parked next to the road, another SAPS vehicle transporting two horses rammed into the TRAC N4 vehicle. The SAPS removed the horses from the scene after they were checked by a veterinarian. No people were injured. The unit, with all 10 of their horses, were on their way to Mbombela as part of the police contingent taking part in the State of the Province Address (Sopa) that takes place on Friday. The SAPS vehicle at Poplar Creek that caused three injuries. According to Col Paul Bester, unit commander of the mounted and K9 units in Mpumalanga, the accident happened when the driver of the Toyota Cruiser towing the horsebox had to suddenly brake to avoid an accident scene. “Although the trailer is fitted with special air brakes, the rain was pouring down so hard that the brakes locked and the driver lost control.
The Cruiser slid over the barrier on the side of the road with the trailer leaning on top of the barrier.” ALSO READ: Indaba to assist service delivery The police vehicle was swerving to avoid a Trac worker putting out safety cones after another accident occurred only a few minutes earlier. Shortly after the accident, the police and bystanders assisted in getting the two horses, Anter and Taliban, out of the horsebox. During the accident Taliban apparently slipped and fell in the horsebox. He was assisted by bystanders. Bester said fortunately neither of the animals sustained any serious injuries. Both have scratches and scuff marks.  Shortly after the accident, Dr Johan Viljoen, a veterinarian at the West Acres Animal Hospital, arrived at the scene to treat the animals. He declared them fit to continue with their journey to Mbombela. When the seven-vehicle convoy arrived at Ngwenya Lodge outside White River, the temporary station for the mounted unit, he once again inspected the animals. Bester said the horses are on compulsory “sick leave” for seven days and will not be taking part in the Sopa procession. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Police zero in on SAPS officials’ alleged corruption