 MBOMBELA – Dam levels across the Lowveld have dropped drastically as  South Africa is in the grip of a drought. Measures have been introduced by various municipalities to curb water wastage. Lowvelders have become accustomed to water rationing and -cuts during this period. For homeowners this means using water wisely and seeking alternative sources of water. Those with green thumbs have found it increasingly difficult to maintain their gardens and vegetation. The battle to reduce daily water consumption and still maintain a garden has led to innovative ways to re-use water. Greywater, which is relatively clean waste water that comes from baths, sinks, washing machines and other kitchen appliances, can be effective in cutting down on water consumption while ensuring gardens receive enough water. Wastewater from basins can be re-used to maintain the garden. ALSO READ: Health department confirms no coronavirus in Kingdom of eSwatini Statistics have shown that between 31 to 50 per cent of South Africans’ water usage is spent on garden maintenance. “Homeowners who want to maintain their gardens while being more water wise will need to find alternative watering methods, such as using water that would normally flow down the drain as a way of reducing your water consumption and your water bill,” advised regional director and CEO of RE/MAX of Southern Africa, Adrian Goslett. The average daily water consumption per person is at 237 litres, which means that a family of four could use almost as much as 346,020 litres annually. Most of this will end up going down the drain. RE/MAX of Southern Africa gave its top tips in reducing this number.  ALSO READ: After slight delays in the morning, the Mbombela Licensing Department was online yesterday Greywater is wastewater from baths, showers, sinks, and appliances such as the washing machine or dishwasher. It does not include water from the toilet system or kitchen water, as the substances in these water systems (such as oil or fats) can be harmful to plants. 2.The residual soap won’t harm your plants While some people might be worried that the soaps in the water will harm their plants, the residues and soaps in their diluted quantities actually provide useful sulphates and nitrates that are more beneficial than using water straight from the tap.  ALSO READ: Mpumalanga police officers receives awards for their achievements at National Excellence Awards 3.Don’t keep greywater for longer than 24 hours Bacteria is another concern when using grey water; however, if the water is used within 24 hours, there is no need for concern. Another way to minimise possible odours is by directing the water as close to the plant’s roots as possible. If the water does not infiltrate properly into the soil, it will create a pool of grey water, which creates a mosquito breeding ground as a result of the bad odour. 4.Always consider the size of your garden The size of the garden and watering requirements will determine the type of greywater system that the household requires to maintain the garden effectively. Ideally, the system should allow water to run back into the sewer system if required – this would be necessary during periods of high rainfall.  ALSO READ: Potting the potholes, one at a time Re-purposing water waste can sound daunting at first but it is in the best interest of the homeowner to invest in a grey water system. The use of alternative water sources is not only a way to maintain the garden during times of drought but is also a way to invest in the value of the property. Homeowners can evaluate the benefits of using alternative water sources by getting in touch with a real estate professional who can advise on how these eco-friendly, waterwise additions will improve the property value, Goslett concluded. 