The concession area covers a total population of approximately 390 000 people. As an environmental, quality and safety conscious services provider, Silulumanzi places emphasis on customer satisfaction through a provision of quality services and avoidance of negative environmental impact.  Therefore, the objective of the Customer Satisfaction Survey is to measure Silulumanzi’s performance as the provider of water and sanitation services based on the level of its customer satisfaction.  This proposal must include the formulation of the questionnaire in liaison with Silulumanzi, determination of sample size and spread, data gathering, analysis and reporting. The requested proposal must include methodology, sample questionnaire, and price (including VAT). The survey should be focused on external Silulumanzi Customers. 1. Identification of customer segments in more detail
2. Perception of Quality of water received by customers
3. Perception of Quantity /reliability of water received by customers
4. Perception of quality of customer services
5. Characterization of quality of services received by various segments/units
6. Perception of Availability of sanitation services.
7. Declaration for Conflict of Interest Prices to be fixed for the first 12 months and escalate in line according to the latest CPI. One survey per calendar year to be conducted for the 36 months contract. Proposals supported by the Company Profile detailing the previous experience of the services to be provided; sealed in an envelope marked: Customer Satisfaction Survey, Reference No.: CSS-03-2020, the name of the Service Provider and contact number, shall be deposited in the tender box provided at the Offices of Silulumanzi, Ground Floor, Bateleur Building, 18 Nel Street before 11:00am on the closing date. Only Professional Service Providers who meet the following requirements will be considered:
• Properly qualified to conduct customer satisfaction surveys
• With sufficient experience in conducting customer satisfaction surveys
• Submit a valid, original tax clearance certificate or valid pin certificate
• Submit a valid Level 2 BBBEE certificate or Higher or valid Sworn Affidavit
• Have attached company registration documents Evaluation, adjudication and award will be based on Silulumanzi being satisfied that the service provider is suitably qualified and experienced to conduct the survey, and the price will not be the overriding consideration. Documents will be obtainable from Silulumanzi cashiers at a non-refundable amount of R300-00. Reference: CSS-03-2020
Closing Date: 27 March 2020
Closing time: 11:00am  No late proposals will be accepted. Silulumanzi is not obliged to accept the lowest or any tender and reserves the right to accept any tender, part of any tender, or more than one tender. Contact Details: Samuel Thobela or Richmond Jele
Telephone No: (013) 752 6839
E-mail: Samuel.thobela@silulumanzi.com or Richmond.jele@silulumanzi.com
Employer: Silulumanzi
P.O. Box 12753,
Nelspruit,1200