 MBOMBELA – Yoga enthusiasts from across the Lowveld came together on Saturday February 8 to join in a yoga and breath work session. The instructor, Maya Bhatt presently works at the Consulate General of India, Swami Vivekananda Cultural Centre in Johannesburg as a cultural and yoga teacher. She has been practising yoga for 21 years and has been teaching for the past 17 years. Bhatt holds a diploma in yoga science from the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, New Delhi, and masters in yoga science from Uttarakhand Sanskrit University, Haridwar, the world capital of yoga. She led participants in a series of postures and breathing work to promote physical and mental well-being. ALSO READ: Support local and grow your community The Sunday workshop held at Live Shanti Studio in White River hosted a full house, and was also well received. Sharita Patel and Denise Shohandev were involved with organising the event at the Lowveld Botanical Garden, that takes place monthly on every second Saturday. Instructors may vary and everyone is invited to come and join the sessions in a peaceful nature setting. “Yoga works in a very subtle yet powerful way, which our modern lifestyles really crave. It’s designed to make us physically fit and less stressed. Some peace and time with yourself – for yourself. It’s a beautiful way to start your weekend,” said Patel. ALSO READ: The Rest Nature Estate launches its third phase Here are some misconceptions about yoga: 1. You have to be flexible: Yoga helps you become flexible. No matter what your skill level is when you start out, consistent practise will help you improve not only your flexibility, but balance and strength as well. 2. It is too slow: There’s a great deal of value in gentle yoga, but there are many styles and schools that are incredibly physically challenging. It takes strength, stamina, and flexibility. There is a class out there that will meet your needs – whether you’re a dancer, triathlete, or tired grandma. 3. Yoga is for women: It was actually created by men thousands of years ago. It is as equally beneficial to men as to women. The ratio of men to women in class has been growing over the years too. 4. It is a religion: Yoga is a science and not a religion. Religion is never pushed on students during a class. You can incorporate a spirituality aspect to become more connected to your body, but it is really a technique of physical movements that improve your health. 5. Older people can’t do yoga: It is for people of all ages. It’s never too late or too early to start practising. 6. It is too expensive: Yoga classes in the Lowveld are priced very competitively compared with bigger cities. Free classes are offered once a month at the botanical garden. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga police officers receives awards for their achievements at National Excellence Awards