 The SPCA seized the animals earlier this month. The SPCA said that they have been struggling with the pet shop for quite some time. They previously conducted several proactive inspections to give advice on improving the living conditions of the animals in this facility. They found the same problems every time they went back. “There was always extreme overcrowding in the bird cages, many animals would not have been provided with food and water, or the drinking water was horrifically dirty. We would find soiled and rotten bedding, sick and injured animals, cages with protruding wires, mixing of incompatible species and poor lighting and ventilation,” said Lize Pienaar, Nelspruit SPCA chairperson. ALSO READ: Two burglars appears in White River court Pienaar also said that the facility was always extremely dirty, unidentifiable foreign matter, spiderwebs, flies and dead cockroaches could be seen. Over the past few months the SPCA responded to several complaints the public had. “We have issued four comprehensive warnings since September 2019 and there was very little improvement. During our last follow-ups we found newborn mice in a cage after their mother had died. We also found diseased and injured birds.” The two sister societies, Barberton SPCA and White River SPCA, helped them seize the animals. These animals are currently in the custody of the Nelspruit SPCA. None of these animals are currently available for adoption. Charges have been laid for contraventions of the Animals Protection Act 71 of 1962. “We are busy preparing the docket to commence with the prosecution process as soon as possible. It is impossible to tell how long this will take, as there are many factors that can influence such a process,” Pienaar said. ALSO READ: Whiskymaker brings distillery’s finest to Mbombela Once the court case has been concluded, if it were in their favour, the animals available for adoption will be networked. When Feeding Frenzy first opened, Karin Erasmus from ProLife supported them but had one condition: that they should never keep or sell animals in the shop. “As soon as I found out, I suspended my support for them,” said Erasmus.