 CVVD optimises both engine performance and fuel efficiency while also being eco-friendly. The valve control technology regulates the duration of valve opening and closing according to driving conditions, achieving a 4% boost in performance and a 5% improvement in fuel efficiency. Furthermore, the technology cuts emissions by 12%. Until now, an internal combustion engine’s performance and efficiency have been governed by variable valve control technology that adjusts the timing of valve opening and closing and depth of the valve’s opening. Engine power is produced through the fuel intake-compression-expansion-exhaustion cycle. Typical variable valve control technologies manage the timing of the valve’s opening and closing (as in Continuously Variable Valve Timing – CVVT) or control the volume of air admitted by adjusting the depth of the opening (Continuously Variable Valve Lift – CVVL). ALSO READ: Surprises on the oval track in Feb Previous variable valve control technologies could not regulate valve duration, as the valve’s closing timing was subordinate to opening timing and could not respond to diverse driving situations. CVVD takes the technology in a new direction by adjusting the length of time that a valve stays open. When the vehicle maintains a constant speed and requires low engine output, CVVD opens the intake valve from the middle to end of the compression stroke. This helps to improve fuel efficiency by reducing the resistance caused by compression. ALSO READ: Ford’s LHI tech looks into the future of driving On the other hand, when engine output is high, such as when the car is driving at a high speed, the intake valve is closed at the beginning of the compression stroke to maximise the amount of air used for the explosion, enhancing torque to improve acceleration. Unveiled alongside the new CVVD technology was KIA’s new Smartstream G1.6 T-GDi engine, a four-cylinder in-line gasoline turbo unit producing 132kW and 265Nm torque. The new powertrain is the first to utilise the new CVVD technology and also features Low-Pressure Exhaust Gas Recirculation, or LP EGR, to further optimise fuel efficiency. Additionally, the new unit has an integrated thermal management system that quickly heats or cools the engine to an optimal temperature, and a strong direct spray system that achieves 350 bar of pressure, surpassing the 250 bar of Kia’s existing T-GDi engine. In addition, engine friction is reduced by 34% with the application of low-friction moving parts. The new Smartstream G1.6 T-GDi engine will be applied to a variety of future Kia vehicles.