 This is the fourteenth year that this event will be held in Mbombela. After a couple of years where rain dampened the spirits of relayers, last year saw the build-up to this year’s event begin when the CANSA Relay for Life Committee hosted the spectacular CANSA Relay for Life Survivors’ Picnic at the Botanical Garden. “The Relay for Life offers a different experience for each person every year. For some cancer patients it might be their tenth year in remission; for others it might be their first. It might also be the first year that a caregiver goes to the event after losing someone dear to them. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Heritage takes its members on a tour of the city The luminaria ceremony is really impactful, and provides closure to those who have lost a loved one,” said Maria Scholtz, head of sustainability at CANSA Nelspruit. The Nelspruit CANSA Relay for Life has won national and international awards in terms of the recognition of survivors, caregivers and mission delivery. The relay supports CANSA’s mission, which includes education, care and support to those affected by cancer. CANSA has unique offerings, such as a prosthesis bank and loan equipment. The CANSA Care Homes situated in main centres across South Africa offer home-away-from-home accommodation to patients who need to receive treatment in city centres. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga police officers receives awards This year’s launch event will take place at Emnotweni at 17:30 on February 17. It will be an information session and also an opportunity for survivors and caregivers to register for the Relay for Life, where they will be welcomed as VIP guests.This year’s theme for the Relay for Life is “Carnival of Hope”. It will be a relay as usual from 18:00 to 06:00, however, a special midnight lap will be added for those who are not able to stay for the full 12 hours, giving everyone the opportunity to experience the special ceremonies. For those staying overnight, new fun activities and a different approach to ceremonies will make this an experience that you will never forget. “More details and information will be provided at the launch, so we encourage the public to attend the launch to be fully prepared to celebrate, remember and fight back,” Scholtz said. Entry fees