 New vehicle sales for the full 2019 calendar year peaked at 536 626 units in the total market, as reported to the National Association of Auto Manufacturers of South Africa (NAAMSA) – 2,8% down from the 552 227 units sold throughout the South African auto industry in 2018. MMSA managed to beat the odds by increasing its dealer sales for 2019 by 13,6% while the industry shrunk
by 2,8%. Last year was a landmark year for MMSA, with the introduction of two new models, the bold new Triton and the striking all-new Eclipse Cross, that followed soon after the launch of the new Pajero Sport. “2020 also looks very promising with the arrival of our latest addition, the Eclipse Cross 1.5-litre Turbo petrol, and the imminent introduction of the significantly refreshed ASX and Pajero Sport – all in the first part of the year,” said Nic Campbell, general manager of MMSA. “Our existing product line-up of six models will also be extended, with the Xpander and Mirage in the pipeline for 2020 or early in 2021.” A high level of MMSA’s dealer success can be attributed to the outstanding features of the models offered by MMSA, including the powerful and fuel-efficient 2.4 D4 MIVEC diesel engine driving the Pajero Sport and Triton derivatives. Apart from performance, nothing is more important to Mitsubishi Motors than the safety of everyone inside and outside of any Mitsubishi vehicle. ALSO READ: Morgan Plus 4 to say a magnificent farewell “On top of safety and performance, our vast array of accessories for all models, outstanding in-house financial services supported by Mitsubishi Motors Financial Services, and a wide variety of regular special offers all add even better value for money to our already well-priced product range,” said Campbell. These include additional service and maintenance plans as well as warranty options on top of the original factory-supported plans and options as part of the vehicle’s purchase price. “Mitsubishi Motors Financial Services offers our customers insurance as well as extended service plans, maintenance plans and a variety of warranties to complement the Mitsubishi Motors’ experience,” said Campbell. ALSO READ: 4×4 Club prepares to tackle any obstacle in 2020 “We’ll help you to get everything you need for your vehicle at your local or any of our 40 dealers in Southern Africa. We take the hassle out of shopping for the ultimate car for you and your family by supplying the best service right from the start.” MMSA is making huge strides in expanding its dealer footprint, with extended plans to grow its 40 current dealerships in Southern Africa in 2020 and beyond. “We pride ourselves on very limited price increases throughout 2019 – something else that supported our strong sales through our dealership channels,” said Campbell.