 The SA Air Force (SAAF) is one of the oldest in the world, founded in February 1920. This month marks the 100th anniversary of the South African Air Force (SAAF) and it hosted a Prestige Parade at Swartkop to commemorate the occasion on Friday January 31.  The SAAF said in a statement: “SAAF is celebrating 25 years of democracy and simultaneously commemorating its collective heritage in 2020.” “As we continue to build a cohesive society and enhance unity, it is important to reconfigure the SAAF’s heritage landscape to ensure that it reflects the diversity of our society.” “Join us in 2020 as we continue to break the barriers of social cohesion and embrace SAAF’s collective heritage,” the statement read.  There is allegedly no information about the exact date of the air force’s establishment. Research by the late Dave Becker showed Lt Col Pierre van Ryneveld was appointed as director of Air Services for the then Union Defence Force in June 1920. It was backdated to February and is widely accepted as the most suitable birth date for an air force acknowledged as the second-oldest Commonwealth air force. In the SAAF statement it said that: “We, the people of South Africa, recognise the injustices of our past, honour those who suffered for justice and freedom in our land, respect those who have worked to build and develop our country and believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, united in our diversity.”  The title “South African Air Force” was first used officially on February 1, 1923 when the SAAF was listed under the provisions of the reconstituted SA Defence Act as one of the corps of the Permanent Force. Having recommended to the British that they establish an air force as a separate entity, Gen Jan Smuts wanted the same for South Africa. This decision was taken in 1919 and Lt Col van Ryneveld was commissioned to evolve the organisation and procure the necessary equipment. Earlier that same year van Ryneveld and Major Quinton Brand carried out their epic flight from England to the Cape, pioneering the air route down Africa. ALSO READ: Alleged serial rapist used same modus operandi According to The Unofficial Website of the South African Air Force, the imperial government gave 100 aircraft (including 30 Avro 504K’s, 22 SE.5a’s and 48 DH.9’s), together with spares, tools and hangers as a gift to start the Empire’s newest air force. “The first batch arrived in September 1919 and on January 1, 1920 the aircraft depot was established at Roberts Heights, near Pretoria, under Capt I Welch. It became known as the Aircraft and Artillery Depot. As a suitable airfield was required, the farm Zwartkop, near Roberts Heights, was acquired in April 1921, thus becoming South Africa’s first air force base. Swartkop is now the headquarters of the SAAF Museum which still uses the original Imperial Gift hangers as exhibition halls.” In June 1920 Van Ryneveld was appointed director of air services with the temporary rank of Colonel, backdated to February 1, 1920, with its headquarters at the present SAAF College Officers Mess, Voortrekkerhoogte. This date is acknowledged as marking the official birth of the SAAF. No 1 Flight was established at Zwartkop on 26 April, 1921 and it was joined by a second flight. These flights formed the nucleus of 1 Sqn, that was established by early 1922.