 Great news for Mahindra owners and potential new buyers. The Global New Car Assessment Programme (GNCAP) has found a new safety champion in the compact SUV segment – the Mahindra XUV300. The GNCAP recently tested the entry-level XUV300 as part of its #SaferCarsForIndia campaign in a series of side- and front-offset crash tests. It awarded the XUV300 a score of 16,42 out of 17 for adult protection, giving it five stars and making it the highest-scoring vehicle in the GNCAP #SaferCarsForIndia programme to date. ALSO READ: Load-shedding will continue till Friday – Latest schedule for Mbombela The GNCAP also awarded the XUV300 our stars for child protection, scoring it “Good” or “Adequate” in all areas of occupant protection, cabin intrusion and vehicle body deformation. According to the GNCAP test, the XUV300 has exemplary protection, even with only the two airbags found in its entry-level model. The Mahindra XUV300 was launched in South Africa in May shortly after had its global launch in India. Since then, the model has become one of the Mahindra Group’s global best sellers, retailing more than 40 000 units in its first year on the market. The impressive GNCAP test scores come as Mahindra South Africa introduces its entry-level XUV300 W4 model. This model is fitted with the new 1.5-litre turbodiesel engine that delivers 86kW and 300Nm. It also has two airbags, five five-point seatbelts, ISOFIX child seat anchors and ABS with emergency brake assistance at an entry price of only R234 999. On the other side of the XUV300 spectrum is the luxurious W8 model, that adds features such as cruise control, satellite navigation, an additional five airbags (seven in total) and electronic stability control. “The accolades for our XUV300 keep rolling in,” said Rajesh Gupta, CEO of Mahindra South Africa. “Only recently, the XUV300 was chosen as a semi-finalist in the SA Car of the Year competition and shortly before that, both diesel and petrol variants performed exceptionally well in the WesBank Fuel Economy Tour.” The XUV300 ranked second and third in its respective petrol and diesel categories in the recent Fuel Economy Tour, which was contested over 2 500km. Together with a category win for the KUV100 NXT, Mahindra was ranked in the top three most fuel-efficient brands in the competition. “The XUV300 is a global contender for Mahindra and heralds a new era of modern, advanced, safe and efficient vehicles for the company. We welcome the endorsement by the Global NCAP, as it proves that Mahindra offers exemplary safety, even for its entry-level models,” said Rajesh. ALSO READ: Hoërskool Nelspruit boasts with new wheels thanks to Westvaal