 Kanniah Shrinivasan, the temple priest, told Lowvelder, “Lord Muruga is regarded as the ruler of the universe who bestows boons on the devotees’ health, wealth, happiness, progeny and to eliminate illness.” Shrinivasan explained, “According to the ancient scriptures called Skandha Purama, Lord Muruga, in answer to celestials’ prayers, fought and destroyed two mighty demons, who by their power oppressed the celestials and drove them away from heaven. Then heaven was handed back to them.” In gratitude and reference to the Lord, the joyful celestials offered gifts of milk, honey, rice and other articles in two baskets at each end of a bamboo stick, called kavady.  Devotees all over the world gather each year on their respective Thai Poosam days, carrying kavady and sacred milk as offerings to the Lord. This takes place between February and April. “Nine days prior to the festival, devotees observe celibacy and vegetarianism. The procession starts with fire worship (Homam) during which devotees sit around burning firewood and chant mantras. The smoke emanating from the fire is believed to mix with the atmosphere, disinfecting and purifying it,” the priest said. ALSO WATCH: Social media and cyberbullying Smoke from the fire is captured in vases of various sizes. They are immediately filled with milk and covered tightly. These vases are tied around the kavady. A devotee then sanctifies the environment by sprinkling a turmeric and water mixture. Devotees follow with kavady on their shoulders and walk on two streets, after which they return to the temple and walk around it three times. Abhishakam is performed after this. This is the pouring of milk, honey and yogurt on the idols, while chanting mantras glorifying the supreme Lord. “This is done to please the deity,” said Mahesh Srini. Arathi, the waving of a lamp, is performed while devotees stand and sing the concluding prayer before the deities. Lastly, Paasadam, the offering of food, is done. The blessed food is shared by all. Subashnee Maree, one of the devotees, said, “The festival was something different – a learning experience. It was spiritually uplifting.” ALSO WATCH: Grade Rs will learn English in Hloni, the immobile bus Nishi Naidoo, temple secretary, added, “This is an event one always looks forward to. It is a completely different feeling when you do the prayer. It is emotional, satisfying and euphoric. You feel so much light inside of you.” After lunch a flag, that had been raised on day one, is lowered. “This symbolises victory,” Leon Maree, a devotee, concluded.