 Widely regarded as South Africa’s most definitive automotive awards programme, the Cars.co.za Consumer Awards, exclusively supported by WesBank, South Africa’s largest vehicle finance provider, has become a highlight on the automotive calendar since the inaugural event in 2016. The wins at the Consumer Awards come after a record-breaking 2019 where the Volkswagen brand achieved a 20,4% passenger market share, the highest in 23 years, and the manufacturing plant in Uitenhage achieved an all-time record for production in a single year.  Volkswagen won the biggest accolade at the Consumer Awards; the coveted brand of the year award, solely determined by market and customer data. “We are truly happy and honoured with the vote of confidence and support from our customers. At Volkswagen, we pride ourselves on outstanding products and excellent customer service, and winning the brand of the year award is recognition of the great work being done by Volkswagen employees as well as the dealer network,” said Mike Glendinning, director of sales and marketing, Volkswagen Group South Africa. ALSO READ: Morgan Plus 4 to say a magnificent farewell Volkswagen’s first win of the night was the compact hatchback category. That went to the Polo. This is the second time the locally manufactured vehicle has won this category. The second award for Volkswagen went to the Polo GTI. It won the fun hatchback category, being a finalist at the Consumer Awards.  The popular Golf GTI won the premium hatchback category, bringing Volkswagen’s wins on the night to three. With only five months on sale in South Africa, the T-Cross won its first award in the compact family car category. The Arteon defended its business class category title with a back-to-back win. Volkswagen’s sixth category award for the night went to the Amarok, that won the hotly contested leisure double cab category. This is the third time the Amarok has won this category. ALSO READ: Ford’s LHI tech looks into the future of driving The Volkswagen brand has had the most category wins (16) in the history of the Cars.co.za Consumer Awards. Volkswagen is also the only brand to have won at least one Consumer Awards category every year since the programme began in 2015/16.