 All efforts are being made, but it will take approximately three months to repair the fire damage.
“We believe that the fire was caused by an electrical fault, but the forensic investigation has not been finalised yet,” said Brian Epstein, operations divisional director of Dis-Chem. Unfortunately, smouldering ash caused the fire to flare up again the next morning and the emergency services had to be called again to extinguish the blaze. Epstein says Dis-Chem has a disaster-recovery plan in action and has established a temporary prescription-collection point at the store adjacent to the fire-damaged store. The fire damage inside the Dis-Chem Nelspruit store. It is believed that the blaze was caused by an electrical fault, but the forensic investigation has not been finalised at this point. “This temporary service point is manned by our Dis-Chem Nelspruit pharmacists who will ensure that our valued customers will receive their medication on time as usual. “However, if customers would prefer to go to our new Dis-Chem White River store at White River Crossing Centre, on the corner of Sabie Road (R537) and Chief Mgiyeni Khumalo Drive, and receive our full range of service and product offerings, they may do so. ALSO READ: Let sleeping leopards lie Customers also have the option of obtaining their medication and other pharmaceutical requirements from The Local Choice River Mall Pharmacy, which is just across the road from The Grove Shopping Centre in Riverside Mall, Nelspruit.” He says deliveries of medication will be free of charge. “All customer records and prescriptions are intact and stored on our central database and customers need not worry about replacing prescriptions that have already been recorded on our database.  “Dis-Chem will insure quality service and affordable pricing for its customers as usual. “All efforts are being made to reinstate the Dis-Chem Store at The Grove Shopping Centre as quickly as possible. However, due to structural damages to the premises, it is estimated that this will take approximately three months to accomplish.”We look forward to welcoming our customers back to Dis-Chem Nelspruit in the near future. “We want to express our sincere apologies for any inconvenience cause as a result of this unforeseen disaster,” he said. ALSO READ: Old Joe painted as traffic official to pay tribute to law-enforcement authorities