 Talk about legendary riding destinations and the name Mankele is sure to surface at some stage during the conversation. Talk about Mankele, and the same goes
for Meyer. Together they brought into existence one of SA’s favourite, if not the favourite places to mountain bike. ALSO READ: Mankele Cross Country MTB a gruelling test of technical ability But, every beginning has an end. And every end is a new beginning. Meyer will after
40 years take on a hugely exciting new chapter in George, starting Data Talk Communications. “I have always loved the Slowveld,” he said. “It has grown over the past years and so has mountain biking. Mountain biking has become such a huge part of my life and my families. The MTB community is a super tight community and I will miss seeing all locals at all the events,” he said. Meyer added that Mankele has become a household name in the Lowveld, not just for riders, but for schoolkids as well. “Mankele has become one of the top destinations for school camps. I must admit, getting the kids muddy, sweaty and watching them overcome their fears has been a highlight of being at Mankele. I will miss chasing the pro riders through the bush tunnels trying to get the perfect video footage and building single track in the perfect MTB environment,” he said. ALSO READ: Cyclists bring the heat to annual 3 Towers He will hand over his duties to Geoffrey who he assures will continue keeping Mankele a place of awesome memories. Meyer has not only logged hundreds of hours of duty at Mankele, but also did whatever it takes, no matter how busy, to assist Lowvelder in gaining whatever needed for writing an article in the sports pages. Just as his effort was sincerely appreciated by this paper, he said the following: “Thanks for all your support and effort. Mankele would not have been a success without the Lowvelder and their amazing journalists.” “My three boys, Michael, Alex and Aidan, will be trading in their gumboots for flippers, but they will keep on riding their bikes,” he concluded.