 The DCSSL confirmed to Lowvelder that it had not paid security service providers, and admitted that it experienced budgetary constraints during that time (December). “This affected payments to these companies within 30 days in line with government prescripts,” said department spokesperson, Moeti Mmusi. Several contracted security officers downed tools during that time as a result of non-payment of salaries.
In January Ken Robertson, media spokesperson for the Freedom Front Plus, released a statement that stated protests were held in Bethal and Secunda’s licensing departments and that people were thrown out of the buildings by the protesters. ALSO READ: Expo offers schools a platform for marketing At the end of last week Mmusi confirmed that the department had paid all its contracted security service providers. “As a result, the DCSSL expects of these companies to ensure the timeous payment of salaries of their security officers that are due as per the provisions of the service-level agreement with the department.” He added that now that these companies have been paid, the department “expects those whose employees had earlier downed tools due to non-payment of their salaries, particularly in Gert Sibande District, to return to sites immediately.” The DCSSL has contracts with various service providers in order to render security services at various government sites across the province. The total monthly amount spent on these 16 security companies is approximately R52,6 million. The sites guarded include clinics and health facilities such as Rob Ferreira Hospital. The service providers are paid monthly upon the submission of invoices to the department.  “These budgetary constraints consequently led to some companies not being able to pay their employees. The DCSSL does not have contracts with employees of the affected companies, and we expect them to timeously pay their employees’ salaries. ALSO READ: The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) in town for outreach programme “When we contracted these companies, we evaluated them based on their capabilities, which include financial and human capital,” Mmusi told the newspaper at the time.
Payment of salaries by the companies is part of the service-level agreement that the department has with them. “With regard to budgetary constraints, the DCSSL has since engaged the provincial treasury and guidance has been provided by the Office of the Premier. Meetings were also held with the service providers to urgently resolve the matter,” Mmusi said. He promised that the affected service providers would be paid by no later than February 1, according to their plan. “A provision has been made for financial assistance to be made to the department. Great progress has been recorded in this regard with an intention of normalising the situation.” In the MEC Pat Ngomane’s speech, he announced that the DCSSL would be allocated R5 million from the health department, that will be added to their baseline for the provision of additional security personnel for health facilities, including Rob Ferreira Hospital. Accordingly, the baseline of the DCSSL will see a net increase from R1,354 billion to R1,367 billion. Meanwhile, the MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Gabisile Shabalala, condemned the sporadic incidences of violence at some of the affected security sites and the restriction of access by clients and users of the sites. She further noted with great disappointment the behaviour of some individuals who were preventing staff and patients from entering or leaving some of the facilities. ALSO READ: No light at the end of the tunnel for trapped Lily Mine workers “Communities should refrain from infringing upon the rights of others during protests. It is barbaric for people to be prevented from entering any health facilities. Such behaviour is unacceptable because it may endanger lives,” Shabalala added. She, however, applauded the provincial treasury and the executive council for the assistance and guidance provided to the DCSSL during this time. 