 Approximately 70 business owners attended the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism’s (KLCBT) first networking cocktail function on Wednesday, February 5. This get-together was held at Woodenways Luxury Furniture Mbombela. Linda Grimbeek, from KLCBT, told Lowvelder, “One of the benefits of being part of the business group is the invites to regular networking functions that give business owners the opportunity to meet other business owners. From the past we have received feedback that they leave the networking function with five to six new leads for their businesses at the end of the day.” Ria Burger, the owner of Woodenways Luxury Furniture Mbombela, welcomed the guests and and briefly talked about her organisation. “We have different leather to choose from. We deliver to anywhere our services are needed. We hope as you walk through the store you can feel the comfort and texture of our furniture and we hope we will be the first company that comes to mind when you or someone needs furniture,”she said. ALSO READ: Latest load-shedding schedule Guests were asked to introduce themselves through various fun games. Sarah Koster, from Nelspruit Mica, commented, “I always come to network, also eat some good food and drink some wine.” Jonas Matse, from Jo Li Solutions, said, “I have come to meet new people, prospective suppliers or customers.”  After the introductions, the guests were further asked to share what new things they had in store for the new year. Tiaan Burger, from Woodenways, mentioned, “The organisation will be launching a brand new leather range; this being kudu leather and desert leather.” At the end of the evening, local businessman Jacques Kotze agreed that this was a good event, and that more businesses should get involved. “Lets start supporting each other.” ALSO READ: Get ready for the CANSA Relay for Life Mbombela Jan-Frans van Aardt, from JF van Aardt Attorneys, summed the evening up. “I liked the event. It is well-organised, and businesses should get busy with networking.” For more information on the networking functions contact Jonathan Hattingh on 013-755-1988.