 Before this could happen, however, course designer for the event, Greg Hodgskin, had to explore the area in detail so as to be able to design a course that would be able to accommodate and challenge riders in no less than 16 different classes. This proved a major task, riding through grass of over two metres high – he had to navigate the hidden rocks in the grass. Fortunately though, many marshals assisted and with the support off the landowners, most of the course was slashed. A brush cutter was also employed in the more difficult areas.  With 269 entries it was going to be a busy day. Registration happened between 06:00 to 08:30 and the pits came alive with bikes revving as the riders lined up for the riders’ briefing just before the start of the race. Competitors were eager to let rip. For many, though, it proved to be a hard day, because the heat made things very difficult and dehydration was always going to be a possibility. Even before the start, marshals were out on route opening gates and placing the final markers. ALSO READ: Morgan Plus 4 to say a magnificent farewell Within the LEC, Wildside presents the largest possible geographical area in terms of course design. Thus, to accomplish such a feat requires a bike and/or a chopper. It is not easy for photographers, either. I had to walk far and climb steep terrain to find a suitable spot for taking good pictures. I conversed with some riders just after the race and everyone reported a tough day in the saddle. One such rider spent 10 minutes short of nine hours on his bike and his back was talking to him in French. The average lap time for a 39-kilometre loop was two hours and a few minutes. The pros’ average lap time was one hour 30 minutes. Travis Teasdale dusted his peers by taking the win in Pro Class.  While still sitting atop a granite hill, I could see some of the riders leaving the pits after completion of their race – obviously they had had enough for the day, or they were done and needed to jump into a pool at Badplass Forever Resort, where most of the competitors were staying for the weekend of the race. I also noted one rider who had to be airlifted from the pits. He sustained four fractured ribs and a bruised lung. We wish him a speedy recovery. ALSO READ: Surprises on the oval track in Feb Prize-giving was held at Forever Resort Bush Camp where the competitors also engaged in all the drama of their rides and the hardship endured. It made for intriguing listening for us non-riders. The next race will take place in Pilgrim’s Rest on February 29. I hope to see you there!