 MBOMBELA – The Rest Nature Estate launched its third phase on Thursday, February 6 at their sales centre. Each guest was welcomed with a Hawaiian punch, and dinner, drinks and dessert were part of the evening. Harshil Mitha, owner of Two Red Pens, opened the evening by welcoming all the guests. Ian Todd, a developer at Second Lifestyle, followed and gave some background on phase three. He mentioned that in the development phase, drone photos were taken of the area to create a mosaic that would give developers an idea not only of the best layout, but also how to maximise environmental utilisation. ALSO READ: Kruger National Park temporarily closes its gravel roads and some facilities due to heavy rains “With the detailed pictures that we have, we were able to identify rocks and trees to have those protected. Contours indicated on the site data enable owners who buy land the opportunity to protect trees and incorporate them into architecture.” Todd promised future homeowners that, together with Arca, the appointed review architects involved with many projects at the Rest Nature Estate, the developments on the third phase will offer something unique in location and orientation. The ladies of The Rest Sales Team were the experienced and hardworking go-to people for information about this exciting offering at The Rest Nature Estate. Alec Bates, another developer at Second Lifestyle, went on to mention that nearly 600 plots on The Rest Nature Estate have been sold in the last three to four years. With the new phase, they will be launching 200 more. Leon Bouwer, financial manager at SANLAM, cut the official red ribbon to mark the opening of the new phase. The evening was well attended by current owners and stakeholders in the Rest Nature Estate. Dinner and dessert was prepared by Picasso’s Mexican Taqueria food truck. Overall the evening was festive and very well organised by Two Red Pens Marketing Agency and The Rest Nature Estate Sales Team. ALSO READ: Floods threaten due to constant rain