 The Kruger National Park (KNP) management has adopted a zero-tolerance attitude to speeding. This was reflected in the amount of fines issued during the festive season. ALSO READ: Poaching accused back on the job “We had a high number of speeding fines issued to tourists who were visiting, but half the fines were for staff members.” The speed limit in the Kruger Park is 50 kilometres per hour on tar and 40 kilometres per hour on gravel. Visitors to the KNP are routinely asked to be on the lookout while driving, and to always give animals the right of way. The skidmarks of a taxi that was allegedly speeding in the park. Photo: Supplied KNP staff are allowed to drive up to 65 kilometres per hour, and if they are found driving over that limit, traffic officers issue them with fines, like any other motorists. For employees, there is a form that traffic officers complete during the issuing of the J534 (speeding) that needs the particulars of the staff member, such as the name, employee number, their supervisor’s name and contact details, and their department. Protection services then contact the offender’s particular supervisor about the issued J534, and the supervisor takes disciplinary action against the staff member who committed the offence. “Our staff members who were given those fines will also face disciplinary action,” Phaahla confirmed.
Staff vehicles are monitored by speed traps, and if is an official vehicle, there is a tracker system to assist monitoring. All official vehicles are limited to 65 kilometres per hour. Over that, if the speed is not reduced, the vehicle will stall. A total of 94 fines were issued during the same time period, according to various regulations of the National Environmental Management: Protected Areas Act, Act 57 of 2003 (NEM). These type of fines comprise violations such as the feeding of animals, the removal of wood, sand, gravel, stone or other material, entering or leaving the park at any place other than through an official point or entry and exit without the written permission of the management authority, or staying overnight without paying the applicable fees. ALSO READ: Know the rules when viewing pachyderms NEM fines are also issued for driving a vehicle in a manner that constitutes a nuisance, disturbance, inconvenience, or danger to any other person, driving in a manner that causes an obstruction, blocks the pathway of a management operation or emergency vehicles, to drive or park anywhere except on a designated road or place, or to drive or operate any vehicle in a reckless, negligent or deliberate manner, or with the intentional disregard for the safety of any person, species, specimen or property of whatever nature. When a visitor exceeds the speed limit on gravel roads, fines are issued according to both the NEM Act and various regulations according the National Road Traffic Regulations. Fines vary from R100 to R1 500 depending on the speed recorded. If exceeding 84 kilometres per hour, the driver could land up in court. When exceeding the speed limit on tar roads, fines can vary from R100 to R1 500 depending on the speed recorded, and if exceeding 94 kilometres per hour, the driver could land up in court.