 WHITE RIVER – More than a year after she vanished without a trace, the family and friends of June Dreyer have a number of unanswered questions. The then-29-year-old was dropped off in White River by her boyfriend, Damien Crous, on January 8 last year. She was never seen again. According to Crous, it is not the first time Dreyer has “disappeared”. June Dreyer has still not been found a year after going missing. ALSO READ: Load-shedding over weekend unavoidable “On the day she went missing, June demanded that I hand her the car keys. An argument ensued, because I refused on the grounds that she does not hold a valid driver’s licence.  The keys went missing and I found them hidden in our son’s nappies. She demanded that I drop her off in White River to do shopping.” Crous said he dropped Dreyer off at the NTT White River offices along Chief Mgiyeni Khumalo Drive. That would be the last time he saw her. He claims that Dreyer suffered from “severe emotional issues”. “She has been married before to a man in Malalane, who she had two daughters with. I would later confirm that she had also taken her ex’s car and disappeared.” According to Damien Crous, she prefers wearing flip-flops and has a tattoo on her leg. ALSO READ: Imprecise speed gun device halts further prosecution of traffic violations The couple share a son, and Crous’ biggest fear is that he may lose custody if Dreyer is not found. “My main reason for trying to track her down is so that I may obtain legal custody of my child.” The guardian of Dreyer’s two daughters, who may not be named to protect their identity, agreed.

ALSO READ: Protesters in KaNyamazane demand water 24/7 “It is not unusual for her to disappear if she is unhappy, but she would usually return after a few weeks, especially
on social media. “She loves Facebook, but the chances that she may still be alive grow slimmer with each passing day.” Both suspect that Dreyer may have gone to the Kingdom of eSwatini, as she harboured a deep-seated love for the
country. ALSO READ: Recent rains slightly improve Mpumalanga water levels Crous said he is working closely with the White River detectives, and added that they are checking her cellphone records to establish if there were any patterns they can follow up on. He added that Dreyer’s family have been in touch and recalled that he phoned her number once and it was picked
up by a woman. “A woman answered and I could have sworn that it was her, but that number is no longer active.” “We have received a number of sightings since her disappearance, but nothing concrete that we can follow up on.” “She has a witch flying over a moon tattooed on her left foot, piercings all over and a rabbit’s head on her left hand. She prefers wearing flip-flops and changes her hair colour like a chameleon,” Crous added. ALSO READ: Alleged child molester seeks legal representation Dreyer’s stepmother, Karen Schoeman, said the family have not heard anything from the police regarding any breakthroughs in the case. The investigating officer, Det PX Ngobe, can be reached on 073-306-1140 or 060-606-5279 for any information which
may lead to her safe return.