 Swimmers from various clubs took to the water to qualify for level 2 and 3, and ultimately the South African National Youth Championships. Ilana Hattingh, the Mpumalanga Province Swimming vice-president, said the swimmers who qualify for level 2 will compete in Polokwane on a date to be announced. “The two galas at Van Riebeeck Park swimming pool were held so that the swimmers could qualify for these levels. The level 2 gala will be held in Polokwane, and level 3 in Germiston. “Ultimately the goal is to qualify for the National Youth Championships that are traditionally held in Durban later this year,” she said. For now, what lies ahead for the swimmers is a gala in Middelburg on the weekend of February 15 and a last one to be held at the Van Riebeeck Park swimming pool on the last weekend of the month. The day got off to a great start with the 100-metre girls freestyle with Magdaleen Terblanche claiming first place in a time of 1:02.88, followed closely by Simoné de Beer and
Emma Beyers.  ALSO READ: DCSSL’s budget affects contracted security companies Markus Steyn and Zack Webb fought a close battle in the boys 100-metre freestyle, with the former clinching the top spot in a time of 1:00.47. The competitors swam with everything on the line and a desire to qualify for their levels, as they challenged one another in breaststroke, backstroke, butterfly, freestyle and the individual medley. The sprints over 50, 100 and 200 metres were a firm favourite with the spectators, who cheered appreciatively as the swimmers sailed through the water. Over the longer distances, such as the boys’ and girls’ 400-metre freestyle events, the swimmers powered through the water, using their legs and upper body strength to keep the competition at bay. Emma Beyers, Simoné de Beer and Tyla van Zyl led the course, picking up first, second and third place respectively. In the boys 400-metre freestyle, the three competitors, Matthew Andrew, Edrick Potgieter and Theuns Hattingh, took on the challenge. Andrew powered his way past the competition and claimed the first place.  ALSO READ: Expo offers schools a platform for marketing The girls 50-metre butterfly was another major drawcard for the spectators, who enjoyed the blur of speed as Emma Beyers, Erin Beyers and Ame Quinn rose to the occasion and scuppered the competition to claim victory, scooping first, second and third place. Rossouw Jansen, Markus Steyn and Ruben Terblanche also put in incredible performances in the boys 50-metre butterfly. Over the course of the weekend, the spectators were treated to a smorgasbord of swimming events in which the swimmers acquitted themselves well. The full results of the weekend’s swimming gala can be seen online at www.lowvelder.co.za.