 The City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) will implement the drought tariffs February 1. The Mbombela Electricity & Water Information Facebook group is awash with complaints from residents who have waited days for leaks to be attended to. The administrator of the Facebook group, Thea Rix, said in her experience Silulumanzi’s service was fine in reacting to reported leaks. Richmond Jele, spokesperson for Silulumanzi, was asked about various leaks across town. He committed to obtaining a detailed response from the technical service department. Residents took to the Facebook page to voice their complaints. ALSO READ: Lion cub “adopted” by baboon troop On January 20 a water leakage was reported in Koraalboom Street. The valve was allegedly blocked off, but CMLM never returned. Every time a date is given for the municipality to fix it, its workers never show up. The resident is still waiting for the leak to be fixed. A main pipe and storm water drain were never closed in Polvy Street in November last year. This started another problem; potholes. Megan Earnshaw lodged a complaint and claims the issue has still not been resolved. Jele said the water supply pipe broke under a storm water pipe, and an excavation had to be done to remove the storm water pipe to get to the supply pipe. Assistance has been sought from CMLM’s storm water department. Tanya Elhers claimed, on January 25, that it had been 24 hours since she had reported overflowing sewage to Silulumanzi. “Staff who picked up the after-hours phone are very friendly, but no one has been out to assist. The lowest toilet before this hole is in my house. Can you imagine? Please help! Have followed up three times, but no luck yet.” ALSO READ: Former police sergeant guilty of corruption A water leak in Bracelet Crescent was reported, fixed and the tar was replaced, but during December the leak apparently started again and the tar has started to lift up. Jele said pipes used for house connections in previous years have now become brittle and therefore prone to bursting or leakage. Traffic volumes also contribute, by causing a disturbance underground. When there are any stones on or around pipes, the vibration from traffic may also result in the pipes leaking.