 Many roads were blockaded, and this prevented commuters and residents from going about their daily activities. The protesters burned tyres and blocked the roads with rocks and tree branches. The provincial commissioner of police in Mpumalanga, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, stated, “People have a right to protest, but it should be done within the ambit of the law.” Brig Leonard Hlathi, provincial spokesperson for the police, said that criminals were posing as protesters. They attacked a post office, stole computers and threatened to burn public buildings. The criminals also hijacked trucks at gunpoint and looted the products in them. The trucks were then used to block roads. “It is very clear that this is purely lawlessness and criminality. One would like to ask the organisers of these protests what they say about such criminality taking place on their watch?” asked Zuma. ALSO READ: Barberton protesters demand the release of their comrades Hlathi reported that protesters in Boschfontein, near Malalane in Nkomazi, threatened to attack the Boschfontein Periodical Court. A police officer was injured when a protester attacked him with a chainsaw. The station commander defended the officer and his finger was injured in the process. “In Langeloop on Tuesday, some police officers were attacked with objects and responded by defending themselves. One member of the public was shot and he unfortunately died,” Hlathi said. The case is currently being handled by the Independent Police Investigation Directorate. Zuma said, “We strongly condemn these acts of violence where even our police officers are attacked by the so-called protesters, who do not have respect for the laws of this country. I urge the public to take ownership of their infrastructure, such as libraries, post offices, courts and schools. The public should not allow anyone to destroy these facilities in the name of a protest.” Hlathi told Lowvelder that three people were arrested last Monday for public violence, and that they were to appear at the Mayflower Periodical Court on Wednesday. ALSO READ: Let sleeping leopards lie Twenty-two suspects were also arrested in Langeloop for damaging essential infrastructure, and sabotage. They appeared in the Tonga Magistrate’s Court on  last Wednesday. The court appearance had been postponed to  last Thursday. No other arrests had been made. Photo: Macdonald Masta H Hlompho