 BARBERTON – This town has been in the grip of rioting and looting this week. Protesting Emjindini residents have taken to barricading the entrance to the area with burning tyres, rocks and boulders. The protest action has largely been confined to Extensions 10, 11 and parts of 12, making entry into the area difficult
for motorists and bus drivers. A number of JoJo tanks placed in the drought-stricken area have also been torched
by protesters. The water shortages, load-shedding and the scarcity of job opportunities are said to be the motivation for the
protests. Protesters burned tyres and placed rocks in the road. ALSO READ: Threat of drought looms over Barberton A protesting resident who spoke to Lowvelder, said, “Since the absorption of Umjindi Municipality into Mbombela, we are being overlooked in terms of jobs and service delivery, and we have had enough.” Workers returning from Mbombela in the evenings are dropped off at the one end of General Street, and have to walk the rest of the way home as bus drivers do not enter the town in the evening. Residents took to Facebook to air their opinions after a user, Qhawe Jele, posted, “Bahlali, water will be more scarce beyond the strike, the situation will worsen even more in the near future. And this is not because the City of Mbombela got married to Umjindi. This is a national crisis. Current situation at Lomati Dam water is below 15,6
per cent.”  ALSO READ: No jobs for cash, says Barberton Mines His comment drew responses from a number of users, including one from Isaac Mangokoana, who said, “That is not true what you say, chief. You cannot nationalise the problem, issues and challenges of Umjindi. This problem has been caused by poor leadership, politicians who are greedy for power and money, that is all. It is not the first time Umjindi face such problems, chief.” Another user, Jackie Mavayela, responded, “Why is this drought only affecting the black community? We are asking
the leaders not to make fools of us, because the water does not get cut off in town.” The city centre appeared deserted on Wednesday as foreign nationals, fearing for their safety, closed up shop. The police have been deployed to monitor the situation, but sporadic looting and rioting continue once they leave
the scene. The entrance to Emjindini was barricaded by protesters. ALSO READ: Water restrictions in Barberton to be enforced by December 1st Calm appeared to have been restored yesterday, but the police continued monitoring the entrance to Barberton.