 Well, now, thanks to Ford’s new connected car technology, being able to “see” around the next corner is a reality. Local Hazard Information (LHI) marks a significant step towards a connected transport infrastructure by helping drivers prepare for dangers on the road. When drivers ahead encounter sudden tailbacks, accidents or spilled loads, the driver behind – and possibly out of sight – is given advance warning. This could also apply to everything from freak hailstorms to sudden flooding, or even landslides. The triggers for the system come from what is happening to the cars ahead. Previous traffic incident alert systems have relied on drivers to input information in order to generate alerts. LHI works autonomously, without the need for any driver interaction, to generate information and issue warnings. ALSO READ: The Compass Limited is still a wolf in Jeep’s clothing Hazards are only displayed – via the dashboard display – if the incident is likely to impact on the driver’s journey. LHI is designed to be more beneficial to drivers than current radio broadcasting systems. Already featuring as standard and free of charge for the first year on the new Ford Puma, LHI technology is being rolled out across more than 80 per cent of Ford’s passenger vehicle line-up by the end of this year. Crucially, the benefit will not be limited only to those travelling in Ford vehicles. Information sent can be used to alert drivers of other manufacturers’ vehicles, and vice versa. “What makes Local Hazard Information different is that it is the cars that are connected. There is no reliance on third party apps. Warnings are specific, relevant and tailored to try to help improve your specific journey.” Joerg Beyer, executive director of engineering, Ford of Europe. Sensors monitor activities including emergency braking, fog lights and traction control to detect adverse weather or road conditions. Data from these activities is then computed to determine the hazard location and whether a traffic incident has occurred. The vehicle automatically provides updates through a secure connection to the cloud using the Ford Pass Connect modem. Ford’s technology partner, HERE Technologies operates the central cloud-based platform that collates information from multiple vehicle brands, governed by a business-to-business agreement. The more cars are connected to the network, the greater the efficiency of the system. When many vehicles generate the same warning, others in the vicinity receive incident information from the cloud via the cellular network, enabling drivers to reduce speed or take appropriate action. Additional information is sourced from police databases and traffic reports to provide drivers with further advance warnings, including approaching vehicles driving on the wrong side of the road, animals or people ahead, and roadworks. ALSO READ: K-Speed Trail Breaker is a customised trailblazer