 A couple of weeks ago I drove the Jeep Compass Limited (test report to be published soon) and although it offered similar performance specs, the Vitara which I had this past weekend offered a completely different driving experience. But let us focus on the Suzuki Vitara, and let me start by reminding you that Suzuki is, and has been, the fastest-growing brand in the country for some time now. Mahindra is second. Suzuki has been setting one sales record after the other – it just does not stop. This is good on many levels, especially for the many dedicated sales executives at dealer level. Sales manager Wiaan Pretorius of Suzuki Nelspuit’s biggest challenge is the non-functioning local registration office and no stock on the Suzuki Jimny. Otherwise they cannot keep up. This latest version is, in my mind, more streamlined than its predecessors – a little softer on the eye with a vibrant but still unmistakable Vitara grille and headlight clusters. Daylight and vertical LED running lights add finesse to the front end of the Vitara. Scuff plates have been updated and integrated with the new front and rear bumper design. The shoulder line provides definition to the overall exterior and is enhanced by the lower style line along the doors and linking to the rear wheel arches. It adds, on a philosophical level, to increase the impression of the already excellent ground clearance offered by the Vitara. The rear end is clean and fresh with the black bumper/silver scuff plate combination adding a touch of adventure. ALSO READ: Suzuki Auto SA leads the charge with hat-trick Look and feel or fit and feel as Suzuki refers to it, has seen some improvements. My first impressions, once seated and simply enjoying the spaciousness and lightness on a wide and comfortable driver’s seat, was one of delight. Visibility is excellent and although the interior is now fitted with premium soft touch materials, it is still light in terms of its energy. There is a full colour LCD information touch screen top of the centre console. The latter also offers a handy armrest for the driver. This screen forms part of Suzuki’s Smart Linkage Display Audio system which connects to Apple Car Play and Android Auto. Connecting my mobile to the system was as easy as taking candy from a kid. And while on this. I am 100% against using a mobile whilst driving. I just don’t do it! If its a matter of life and death, and you to absolutely have to, why not link your phone via Bluetooth with your in car system. At least then you have both hands on the steering. I either stop and call back or return the call when I am back at the office or home. Please folks, stay off the phone when you drive. Deep breath… and another one… In this day and age, it is quite unthinkable for any car, even entry level, to not offer some connectivity features – so use it! The Vitara is also kitted with reverse camera (colour) and the more I drive cars with this feature, the more I appreciate it. It is especially helpful in SUVs, double cab bakkies and larger passenger buses. It is also true though, that even with this, many drivers still struggle to park anything larger than a small sedan or hatch. Luggage space and legroom in the rear are substantial which makes the Vitara a good buy for all families. I drove the Vitara GLX fitted with 1.4-litre Boosterjet Turbo engine linked to a six-speed manual gearbox. It produces 103kW and 220Nm and is an absolute cracker. I will not label it a performance car but heck, it comes close. The engine is vibrant and utterly responsive. Gearshifts are short and precise and pushing it a tad (or more) through sweeps and corners is as exiting as driving a small performance car. ALSO READ: A compact city 4×4 that does not fear the off-road Steering is light and precise and the suspension is confident and reassuring. It fits the Vitara energy to a T. In my mind, this is more than what average driver would ever want or need and plenty for the family dad who just cannot resist but to rush to the shop to buy pizza – every now and then – and sometimes more often. This new engine is most certainly going to swing the Suzuki Vitara sales even more. The suspension is firm but comfortable albeit on rough road surfaces, sound feedback into the cabin, can be a bit harsh. Fuel consumption is good – my average for the weekend was 14,01km/L. The price for test vehicle is R380 900 – the auto derivative is R399 900 and includes a four-year service plan and five-year /200 000 kilometre warranty. Its good value from a brand with an exceptional reputation. Long and the short – I truly enjoyed the Vitara experience. It is a family car with a seriously cocky attitude… this is a winner! My next Suzuki drive will be the new Swift Sport (and an all time favorite of mine), so watch this space… ALSO READ: Suzuki soars, joins top 10 South African brands