The idea is to provide its citizens with a conducive environment for both the manufacturers and the buyers, and generally to streamline the industry as a whole for a more substantial economy. The use of electric cars in the west, for example, cannot be overemphasized. It is a growing concern even for other continents like Africa and Asia to follow suit, and to encourage the use of eco-friendlier automobiles. That is not all. Besides governments investing in the local car market, we look at other forms of government involvement in local car markets, and what impact it has on the economy. Most governments are fully aware of the economic situation of their citizens. Not many people can afford to purchase new vehicles for their families, even where the situation is warranting. In such situations, governments chip in to give financial assistance to the people to facilitate the purchase of new vehicles through grants or car assistance programs. Different organizations have been set up by respective governments to oversee such programs, and to ensure that only the deserving parties benefit. Further, there are governments that donate cars to the needy, but such projects are usually limitedto annual donations for the needy. These projects are undertaken through non-governmental organizations or a government body tasked with the same. Funds for donations are channeled to the right persons following successful applications, with the ultimate vetting rights reserved for the donating body.  The push to have more electric cars on the road, as opposed to having carbon-emitting cars  driven by the citizens has taken a new twist. A serious example is the UK government which announced that it will no longer furbish grants for non-electric cars to her citizens. Well, you cannot think of a better way for a government to encourage minimal use of diesel or petrol powered automobiles. It is also projected that soon the manufacture of non-electric vehicles will be stopped, even though a similar step would require extensive consultations from different stakeholders. If such steps can be followed to the end, then the realization of a cleaner environment on the roads could become a reality soon. With the introduction of new high-end automobiles, a lot of background research is inevitable. In essence, research and development of the same is quite costly for individual bodies, and that is one sector that governments are keen on stepping in extensively. The United States Energy Department, for example, has spearheaded technological research for the automotive industry for many years, and that is one way of easing the cost of research, and encouraging investors to come up with cost-effective automobiles. To cater to the demands of electric cars, a devoted body has been launched to develop longer lasting car batteries to effect uninterrupted drives for long distances. This is a government-backed project.  Finally, car buyers are set to benefit from incentives aimed at encouraging prospects to buy electric cars. These incentives only apply to electric cars, and they range from tax exclusion to state incentives that eventually get the car prices down.