 Signalling new territory for the Toyota Quantum, the Quantum VX offers a luxury people carrier with an impressive array of luxury and comfort features. The VX version amplifies the visual drama, with a large chrome finished radiator grille with three horizontal slats which flow from the stylised LED headlamps. A thin chrome strip bridges the opposing LED fog lamps in the lower front apron. The wheel and tyre package comprises 17″ alloy wheels. The Quantum VX provides an almost limousine like degree of cabin comfort and refinement for up to eight passengers (nine seater) with large captain’s chairs, independent rear climate control and multiple USB ports to keep devices fully charged for business or entertainment. The luxurious interior features quilted leather upholstery and power adjustment for the backrest and a fold-out “ottoman” leg rest. Elegant wood trim and soft blue lighting create a premium atmosphere. Both the driver and passengers are well catered for, with front and rear climate control, smart entry and start, dual power operated sliding doors and Toyota’s AudioVisual Navigation (AVN) touchscreen infotainment system. ALSO READ: Connect for a more mobile Toyota/Lexus The Quantum VX features an array of driver assistance features as part of the Toyota Safety Sense suite, including pre-collision safety system (PCS) with pedestrian detection (day and night) and cyclist detection (day only), high-speed active cruise control, lane departure alert, road sign assist and automatic high beam. Using camera and radar sensors, the PCS is designed to detect vehicles, pedestrians and cyclists and assists the driver with visual and audible warnings, braking assistance or autonomous emergency braking if the driver fails to heed the warning. Other advanced safety features include blind spot monitor, rear cross-traffic alert, front and rear parking sensors, reversing camera with guide lines and nine airbags. Along with the aforementioned comfort and safety features, the luxury people carrier boasts a raft of specification items, such as 4,2″ multi-information display, rain sensing wipers, LED room lamps, power adjustable driver’s seat, high-definition Optitron instrumentation, auto-door lock, steering switches, tilt and telescopic steering adjustment, power windows and rear sunshade. Powering the Quantum VX is Toyota’s proven four-cylinder 2,8  GD-6 turbodiesel engine, with outputs of 115kW and 420Nm. This torquey power plant is mated to a six-speed automatic transmission driving the rear wheels.  ALSO READ: Hilux: 50 years of legendary performance