 This national award gave the Department of Education in Mpumalanga something of which to be proud. Fullard thanked everyone who had been part of her road to become a winner on national level. She firstly thanked her husband for supporting her unconditionally. “A woman is as good as the husband behind her,” she said. She continued to thank her daughter for standing by her. “Words are not enough and I am proud of the woman you have become,” she told her. ALSO READ: Learners interact with Pepper the Robot in Mbombela Fullard thanked her parents, siblings, the principal of Hoërskool Bergvlam and special friends. “Thank you to all the WhatsApps I received from my learners encouraging me and my colleagues. You don’t know how much that helped me.” She thanked the Department of Education for all its support. She said she learned so much from it by rejoicing in the achievement of others. “I gained much respect for the department doing work in difficult situations.” Lastly she thanked God for her talents and the people on her path. She paused for a while, then said, “I am a work in progress by His grace. This achievement is for all of us, I am just keeping the car.” ALSO READ: Mancosa donates reading books to Lekazi pupils She ended by using a quote of one of her colleagues. “Draw your mark, make an impact and leave a legacy.” The head boy of Hoërskool Bergvlam, Bonga Ndlovu, one of Fullard’s learners, congratulated and thanked his teacher for improving the way they learn. “You teach us about technology, although it should be the other way around. I have the best Afrikaans teacher,” Ndlovu said. Many Ehlazeni District departmental officials joined the handover. Hazel Brukwe, the district director of Mpumalanga Department of Education, thanked Fullard’s parents as well as her husband and daughter. “We celebrate this achievement with her.” ALSO READ: Amanda Black kicked off her new Power Tour at Emnotweni Brukwe said Fullard is a true leader who does not need a title. “You don’t have to have a title to be a leader. Find your inner leader, because it is longing to break free. “Today Louise is a leader nationally and someday globally. She showed her learners how to be leaders in the classroom.” She likend Fullard to a giraffe being able to reach where no one else can, by aiming higher. The runner-up for the ICT award also joined the occasion and was congratulated on the work she  had done.