 MBOMBELA – The illegal mining of stichtite in the areas around the Kaapsehoop Road seems to have no end in sight. According to SAPS’ Capt Pieter Smit, some alleged illegal miners had been arrested before, but the court procedure had been unsuccessful and the suspects had to be released. According to Brian Morris, manager of protected-areas expansion at the MTPA, the mining is taking place on land owned by Sappi and Komatiland Forests as well as in the road reserve alongside the road itself. “The miners are locals – people staying at an informal settlement called Stella Mine, about 10 kilometres before Kaapsehoop on the road from Mbombela, as well as illegals from Mozambique. The miners sell the stichtite to a middleman, who then takes it to Johannesburg,” Morris told Lowvelder. “The miners are digging a lot of trenches and pits, which can pose a danger to animals that may fall into these excavations. The areas being excavated are also on serpentine geology, which is very brittle. “The natural grasslands occurring on this type of geology are generally very high in plant biodiversity. Mining should not be taking place in such a sensitive area. No mining permits have been issued for this area.” ALSO READ: Fire will not stop Dis-Chem from helping customers According to Elsabe Coetzee, regional communications manager for Sappi, the company is aware of the illegal stichtite mining activities. “We have identified two places on our land where the illegal stichtite mining has taken place. We have engaged the illegal miners on this matter and they confirmed that they do not have licences to mine stichtite on our land,” Coetzee said. “They are trespassing, conducting illegal activities and causing unquestionable harm to the environment by mining in open areas which Sappi is managing for conservation of biodiversity. Their illegal mining activities are also a safety hazard, which is another serious concern for us. “We have informed the miners of the legal process that they have to follow to apply for mining rights and we have asked them to cease all activity on our land.  “Sappi is monitoring the situation and it is our hope that the illegal mining activities in the area will cease.” Coetzee went on to say that security personnel have been patrolling the area, including the Safcol borders, in an effort to curb the illegal mining. Lowvelder contacted Safcol to get its comment, but at the time of going to press it had not yet replied. ALSO READ: Close call for Burnside woman after robbery