 Why? “Because he may well kick your cocky attitude right down your throat.” Hennie Botha may not have seen a war or two – although he did complete national service – but when it comes to fixing and racing cars, he knows more than Tom, Dick and Harry. When he speaks cars – you listen! “My motoring story started in 1972 with a piece of Pretoria News in my pocket – a bus ticket and the intention to go to Allenby Motors in Pretoria to look for work. But because I knew someone at Bosch Chrysler, I decided to pop in.  The owner, a large German man asked me what I want – ‘I am looking for work’, I said. He gave me the once over and ordered me, in typical German fashion, to report for duty the next morning at 07:00. And that was it – my first job interview and successful at that. I received my brand-new branded overalls and at 06:30 the next morning I reported for duty to start my apprenticeship. My current business – here today – is but my third job in all my years  “Part of this job was to assist oval track racers over weekends at Mahem and of course, I also assist Bosch Chrysler own race teams when they competed at events. Bosch had two Dodge cars which they used for racing in rallies. I did also drove a Midget in some races but, well, I did not really shape so eventually assisted with mechanical work.” ALSO READ: Get cheeky with Suzuki’s new little S-Presso And then Hennie related some of his mischievous endeavours – driving other mechanics up the wall by hiding things like spark plugs and the rest while they are working on cars. Eventually he joined Toyota and got involved in Class B racing with a Toyota TRD. “In 1983 we joined the Castrol rally circuit – me as a mechanic and pit crew. A serious accident eventually ruined it for all of us though. This was in 1985. It was also the year just after this, that the rally circuit name was changed to the Sasol Rally.  “I then became more involved with the local oval track fraternity – mostly through my son Hennie Jr – initially riding a Pee Vee 50. And then one night Greg Fouche offered me an opportunity to race with his Datsun. He warned though – if you bend it, you buy it! That was it though – the bug got into my system that night. “I left Toyota in 1986 to start my own business. I bought a Golf 1.6 and started preparing it in my own shop. Politics – yes, believe it politics got into the way with rear-wheel and front-wheel drive competitors at each other’s throats – me winning races despite fierce competition and others always improving the performance levels of their cars, but still I won despite my Golf being stock standard but for a ’36 Weber and a branch.” In 1992 Hennie used the chassis of this Golf, fitted a hot 1.8 GTi engine with side drafts and a fine-tuned cam and continued his winning ways.  “Eventually I had enough and stopped racing, but stayed involved with Eddie Oosthuizen and established a Rally Sprint track at Alkmaar where he eventually also raced again. The only times I did not win was when Cassie Coetzee and some others visited and competed with their rally cars. “Willem Fourie and Frans de Villiers convinced me to try my hand at Midget racing on the oval track again – this I enjoyed yes, my eyesight is not what it should be though so I stopped.” He then began supporting granddaughter Hanneke – first racing a go-cart and now an Opel Corsa. And this young lady, it seems, is continuing Oupa Hennie’s winning ways. “I learned early in my career that I have to compete within my own limits because when you allow others to dictate, it often lands you in trouble.  Self-respect and respect for your competition is critical. Today he, who has the biggest cheque book has the edge when it comes to motorsport. It has become extremely expensive and also a lot more individualistic and selfish. The only thing still on my bucket list is to be exposed to a drive-in an off-road bakkie,” concluded Hennie. If you love vroom-vroom racing stories, do coffee or something stronger with Hennie – after lockdown though – it will be worth it… ALSO READ: INEOS Automotive presents the no-nonsense Grenadier