 Since the debut of the first generation in 1999, the Lexus IS has pursued the fun of driving unique to compact rear wheel drive sports sedans. The all-new IS takes high-level driving performance and sporty styling after more than a million units sold over more than 20 years, to new extremes. The aggressive styling design creates a wide and low form characterised by sharpness, while the IS features advanced safety technologies, including an evolved version of Lexus Safety System+. Lexus International’s chief engineer, Naoki Kobayashi, says, “What we had foremost in mind in developing the new IS was to make it a car that excelled in communicating with the driver and, as a vehicle with wide latitude for providing such feedback, would never fail in doing so, regardless of the road conditions or driving status. We retained the compact body and aimed to make the new IS a Lexus compact sports sedan that provides high-quality ride comfort, while offering a high level of vehicle control.”  ALSO READ: A plan hatched by Charles Spencer created the Range Rover  In addition to slender headlamps featuring newly developed compact and lightweight lamp units, a low centre of gravity is expressed through low positioned areas around the grille, matched by lowered side character lines and the shape of the rear extremity of the trunk. Muscular fenders, straight line type rear combination lamps sporting an “L” motif, and three-dimensional bumper garnishes add to the aggressive look. In addition, new design 19-inch tyres and wide proportions based on a wide track evoke a sense of sporty driving. Inside a new multimedia system features a new touchscreen while available chromatic colours are used on the upper instrument panel. The new IS boasts a new version of Lexus Safety System+, which has further evolved through the introduction of advanced safety technologies, including added functions such as Emergency Steering Assist which improves the system’s lane recognition performance. These advances are part of Lexus’ continuing efforts to prevent traffic accidents and fatalities, reduce driver burden, and develop driver-assist systems that provide a more natural and safer driving experience.  ALSO READ: A plan hatched by Charles Spencer created the Range Rover  The Pre-Collision System has been improved to detect daytime cyclists as well as pedestrians in low-light conditions and oncoming vehicles and pedestrians crossing the street. Also featured are functions such as Emergency Steering Assist, which assists steering within the vehicle’s lane as cued by the driver.
Dynamic Radar Cruise Control and Lane Tracing Assist (LTA) combine to help the driver stay on course. In the new IS, lane recognition performance has been improved. When LTA is activated, AI technologies are applied to camera-actuated, white-line recognition for advanced deceleration of the vehicle in line with the size of the curve. Keeping lateral g-forces constant while driving through curves contributes to stable and comfortable driving and makes driving assist more continuous.  ALSO READ: Continental rubber is good for both driving and running The new Lexus IS will be available for sale in South Africa early next year. The range will comprise three model derivatives which Lexus SA will announce at launch. Lexus’ industry-leading seven-year warranty and maintenance plan will come as standard for IS drivers. Motorpress