 Thousands of tourism and restaurant role players have embarked on protest action against South Africa’s lockdown regulations today. The so-called “lockdown regulations” have been limiting the movement and activities of citizens since March. Residents may not travel between provinces for leisure purposes, nor may anyone spend a night at a leisure resort, game reserve or park. Alcohol may not be sold either. Founders Grill in RoodepoortPhoto credit: Jarryd Westerdale The effects of these rules threaten to bring tour operators, restaurateurs and others working in the industry to their knees. Seventy per cent of jobs have reportedly been lost, equalling 800 000 people. Losses to the industry total more than R700 000 per day. Caxton Local Media newsrooms are covering unfolding events in various areas. The Garden Route stretches from Heidelberg to the Tsitsikamma Forest and Storms River and constitutes one of South Africa’s most visited tourism regions. A demonstration by members of the restaurant industry was scheduled from 12:00 to 14:00. It was organised by the Restaurant Association of South Africa (Rasa). Locals have reported that the nightly curfew of 21:00 and load-shedding have made it difficult to operate during lockdown. Rasa sent a letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa on June 20, requesting that the sale and distribution of liquor at all restaurants with valid licences be allowed again. Updates will be published on George Herald’s website. Founders Grill in RoodepoortPhoto credit: Jarryd Westerdale Tourism role players are set to meet at a restaurant in Ramsgate at 14:00 to share their silent yet displeasing attitude regarding the industry once again closing due to Covid-19 and the nationwide lockdown. Updates will be published on South Coast Herald’s website. Bedfordview restaurants join #JobsSaveLives demonstrations In what is being deemed as the biggest protest in history by the South African restaurant industry, restaurants, cafes and eateries around the country are expected to stand in solidarity for the Million Seats on the Streets peaceful protest which is set to take place from 12:00 to 14:00. Restaurant, café and eatery owners stand together for #MillionSeatsInTheStreets in Bryanston @Sandton_News pic.twitter.com/USANyYHz3b — Chanté Ho Hip (@Chante_Poppie) July 22, 2020  According to the association, tables and chairs will be placed outside various establishments to highlight the massive impact that the Covid-19 lockdown regulations have had on the industry.  See the updates of the silent movement on Sandton Chronicle’s website. Several staff members from Bedfordview restaurants took to the streets today, July 22 in an effort to show the impact of Covid-19 restrictions and regulations on the restaurant and entertainment industry.  Read the story here. Restaurants in Benoni took part in the national peaceful restaurant protest today. These restauranteurs in what is usually a bustling Russel Street, in Western Extension, say their businesses have suffered tremendously in lockdown, especially due to the ban on alcohol sales.  Kevin Helena, of Villa Funchal, in Russel Street, Western Extension, said the alcohol ban has killed his business. Employees are working on cut hours and he wants the government to unban alcohol sales. Marike van Staden and Hein Reid, of the Victorian Secret, are grateful they have a bakery to sustain their sales. They added that lockdown has actually helped them to understand their business better and develop new products. The business is, however, licenced and they, therefore, would like to see the alcohol ban lifted. A Churrasqueira (Alberton) In Solidarity with a nationwide protest movement by restaurants, the management and staff of A Churrasqueira took to the streets to protest the measures put in place by government during the nationwide lockdown. According to Victor Da Silva owner of A Churrasqueira the way that government has implemented restrictions against restaurants was done incorrectly. He further said that measures put in place has had a huge effect on their industry and the shutdown of it has had a major knock-on effect. “It doesn’t just affect us and our employees,” said Da Silva. “It also affects their families and the families of other industries that we support.” He went on to say that the government should have looked to other countries to understand what measures should be in place. Da Silva describes the effect of the lockdown as extreme on their employees. “Some of our employees had to send their children to their families as they can’t support them here,” said Da Silva. While not placing their tables outside, staff and management took to the streets as a group with their vehicle and some DA members with them. They hoped that this show of solidarity would spread the word around and help convince the government to change the regulations. Down south in the village of Henley on Klip A mere 35 minutes from Alberton is the small village of Henley on Klip, home to a number of small privately-owned restaurants. These restaurants came together as a community to make their voices heard and stood for equal application of regulations and pleading with government to save jobs and not kill business.  Pics received from Molly’s Speakeasy, Taste Budz, The Windmill, The Hound and Twisted Realm. Another well-attended slow-drive tourism protest was held in the Lowveld today, following a similar protest that took place on Friday. Various role players in the industry took to the streets earlier today in a protest action organised by Hylton Langley, a Lowveld tour operator. The drive included several Citybug buses, open safari vehicles, mini-buses and sedans that travelled from Casterbridge Lifestyle Centre in White River to Mbombela, along with police escorts. The group gave a mission statement to Pat Ngomane, the MEC for finance, economic development and tourism in Mpumalanga, outlining the dire state of tourism at the moment.   Protest action by members of the tourism industry has been planned for today, however, it has yet to commence. Updates will be published on Review online’s website Rasa CEO, Wendy Alberts has encouraged business owners to share black-and-white images on social media on how many jobs have been affected at their respective establishments. Restaurants take to social media to share how many of their employees have been affected by the lockdown. Photo: Jessie Stan via Facebook. Blessing Manale, spokesperson for tourism, said a departmental budget vote was in progress at the time of going to press. He was therefore unable to comment on the day’s scheduled events. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).