 BARBERTON – South Africans experiencing lockdown and its attendant restrictions on travel and other personal freedoms, have much to be thankful for when considering the many who are stranded abroad. Lynette Spencer is a seasoned Lowvelder, teacher and a freelance copywriter at Africa InTouch. Like many, she and her husband, Mike, had no idea what they were letting themselves in for after travelling to Auckland, New Zealand
on February 23. The visit was planned well in advance and would see them reunited with friends and family after 20 years. Mike and Lynette Spencer. ALSO READ: Nelspruit Police Station temporarily closed after positive Covid-19 case, services to resume tomorrow The global Covid-19 pandemic turned their holiday into a nightmare after flights were cancelled and airports closed in a bid to curb the spread. “We had to cancel our flight back with Qantas on March 27 and buy new tickets for our return, thanks to a friend who helped us financially.

ALSO READ: Baby Bailey Tumber needs your help to walk “I kept a close eye on the new airline websites to see if anything had changed for our new flight on March 25 with Singapore Airlines. “Singapore shut its airport for travelers who had to transit, which was a blow for passengers hoping to catch a second flight from that country,” said Lynette. Reality set in as the extent of the lockdown intensified. South Africans who were in the same boat, started WhatsApp
chat groups to seek help and keep one another abreast of new developments.

ALSO READ: Buscor doubles up on routes to ease commuters’ 50% capacity woes “Our situation was easier to bear because we were visiting family. More South Africans were stranded in
hotels and B&Bs, which was costly. At that stage, the rand/ NZ$ exchange was at one to 10.” Lynette added that there were a number of her countrymen, mostly in their 70s, facing the same situation and suffering from chronic medical conditions. “Some are diabetic or suffer from high blood pressure, cholesterol and other conditions. Mike suffers from back pain and was due to undergo surgery upon our return.

ALSO READ: Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport’s proposed budget cuts a blow for tourism “We rescheduled his operation and eventually had to cancel it once it became clear we would not be returning soon.” The talk of repatriation flights from other countries offers no solace due to the high costs involved. “We are all sitting with return tickets that we cannot use right now.” “No one was prepared for this, but we feel like we have been forgotten.” ALSO READ: Sassa Mpumalanga urges rejected Social Relief of Distress applicants not to despair “The embassy tells us that the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) will help. My sister-in-law has lost the battle against cancer and I desperately want to embrace my brother and tell him, ‘Everything
will be okay’, but I can’t.” The government has, through SAA, arranged two repatriation flights from Sydney and Brisbane, but those in New Zealand had to get to Australia on their own steam and the price of the tickets were unaffordable. Since schools have reopened, she has been placed on unpaid leave while debit orders and the monthly rental are still being charged to her account.

ALSO READ: COVID squeeze is forcing many surrenders “Whatsapp groups are quiet or have been closed by Dirco, the HAFH groups who assisted those
stranded through social media hardly post any news at all and we are left with no hope of returning home.” She concluded, “It is day 105 for us in a strange land, my life is on hold, I just want to come home, please.”