 MBOMBELA – The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) offices in Bester Street have been turning away potential grant and pension applicants over the past week. This is according to disgruntled pension applicant, Mary Pettit (53), who said she was refused admittance numerous times when visiting the Sassa offices. According to Pettit, it appears as though the employees have been on strike for some time now. “I visited the offices on Monday and the service was very efficient, but I had to return on Wednesday and was told by a security guard that the staff were on strike.  ALSO READ: Hippo killed in crash on road between Mbombela and Malalane “I called the office line, but it went unanswered and on my next visit, saw a sign which indicated that they were closed until further notice, with no reason specified,” said Pettit. She explained that she was applying to receive an old-age pension and asked, “What about the people who need money right now? They queue here in the cold from the early hours only to be turned away.” Pettit added that the offices were closed again on Tuesday and that employees were sitting outside.  ALSO READ: Load-shedding to move to stage 2 at 14:00 as demand increases “I saw a rail thin woman wearing only a shawl, waiting outside to be granted access. All these people are in dire straits. This behaviour borders on the criminal,” she said. Sassa Mpumalanga’s spokesperson, Senzeni Ngubeni dismissed the claim that staff were engaged in strike action, citing faulty air conditioning inside the offices as the reason they were outside. He said, “The employees are not on strike. I would like to mention that the working environment is not conducive due to an air conditioning unit releasing unbearably cold air in the building.  ALSO READ: WATCH: Nature’s mischief at Skukuza Golf Club “The landlord has not come to the party to fix the unit due to some financial challenges which involves the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport, on behalf of the agency.” He added that a number of applications were processed at the Bester Street offices. “Because it is extremely cold, employees cannot stay longer. You may be aware of the risks associated with Covid-19 in cold conditions. Others are referred to nearby offices around Mbombela, namely KaBokweni, Masoyi, Matsulu, KaDaantjie and others,” he concluded.