 “This is a major victory for motorists in South Africa,” said the Automobile Association (AA). The AA launched a petition a little under two weeks ago urging the government to extend the validity period of licences given the problems with renewals at Driving Licence Testing Centres (DLTCs). “As the champion of South African motorists, we are elated at this move. It’s great news for motorists who have been worried about being legal on the road in the face of mounting backlogs with renewals. ALSO READ: Sassa moves operations to Ferreira Street after freeze out in Bester Street offices We applaud the government and the RTMC for making this decision which, ultimately, is the right way forward. We also want to thank the minister for being responsive to motorists’ needs during this difficult time and for taking this pragmatic step,” said Willem Groenewald, CEO of the AA. Vehicle licence discs, temporary permits and roadworthy certificates that expired during the same period are valid until August 31. “Tens of thousands of concerned South Africans signed our online petition which urged the government to extend the period. At the time we noted that motorists want to be compliant and what to remain legally on the road but that they were experiencing problems doing so. We must thank all of these motorists for being active citizens and for playing their role,” said Groenewald. The AA said it trusts government will monitor the situation with renewals closely and consider further extensions in the new year should the need arise. “We believe much can be done between now and the end of January to clear backlogs but if there are still issues with renewals at that time, government will need to consider a further extension beyond the end of January to ensure everyone is accommodated fairly,” Groenewald said. The AA said the extension is giving motorists some breathing space in terms of renewals but it urges all motorists with expired licences to not waste the opportunity and to get these renewed sooner rather than later. ALSO READ: Spend the morning with an international bird guide