 This ranks Suzuki 7th overall in the sales rankings it also gives it a 4,49% share of the total vehicle market and a 7,17% share of the passenger vehicle market. “All credit goes to our national dealer network, which worked very hard to reopen all their dealership floors, while meeting government and Suzuki standards for sanitation and safety. Their rapid action allowed us to meet the pent-up demand for good quality, affordable vehicles such as our new S-Presso and popular Swift,” said André Venter, divisional manager for sales and marketing at Suzuki Auto South Africa. READ: Kia powers to another JD Power title The S-Presso sold 555 new units in June.
“With a starting price of only R139 900, a service plan and five-year warranty included, the S-Presso seems to be the perfect vehicle for cash-strapped South Africans looking for a reliable new car. Its design as a compact SUV, with more interior space and high ground clearance, certainly helps,” said Venter. Suzuki Swift sold 297, the Ignis 86 and the Jimny 4×4, 249 units.
Naamsa reports that a total of 31 867 vehicles were sold in June, which is significantly up from the 12 874 sold in May. It remains well below the 45 953 units sold in June 2019.
“It was impossible to predict the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown or to fully gauge its impact on dealer health, but based on June’s sales it looks like there is a glimmer of hope for the auto industry. We will support our dealers as they continue to trade under difficult circumstances and will fully support the industry, which remains a very significant investor and employer in South Africa,” said Venter. ALSO READ:  Mitsubishi takes toughness to the extreme with the new Triton Xtreme Suzuki celebrated its first ten years in South Africa in 2019 with a new all-time sales record for the year.
“With the growth in our dealer network we have been forced to increase our support staff and available parts storage. We have already identified a new corporate head office and warehouse facility in Johannesburg and will move as soon as it is safe to do so,” said Venter.