 Strong winds of between 65 and 100 km/h are forecast, with Table Bay, False Bay, Hermanus, Cape Agulhas and the adjacent interior most likely to be affected, said the statement. The SAWS cautioned that the strong winds could lead to trees being blown over, possibly damaging property and affecting road travel. Motorists are urged to allow for increased travel time and truck drivers are warned that high sided vehicles are at risk of toppling as a result of crosswinds, particularly on the N1, N2, N7 and R60.  Strong north-westerly winds over the interior may fuel runaway fires across the Eastern Cape. According to the update, the front can also be expected to lead to high seas, with waves expected to range from 6 to 13m along the Northern and Western Cape coastline, extending to the Eastern Cape during the course of Monday.  Boats and fishermen should be aware that disruption of harbours and ports, as well as beachfronts, can be expected. Medium to large vessels will be at risk as a result of dragging of anchors.  A video that has been circulating on social media shows Table Mountain waterfalls in Cape Town sweeping down a hiking trail. A rare sight indeed The coast between Cape Columbine and Plettenberg Bay in the Western Cape can also expect storm surge, which may lead to further coastal infrastructure damage and beach erosion. Due to saturated ground from the past few days’ rainfall in Cape Town, further rainfall is likely to lead to flooding of roads and informal settlements, which may lead to property damage and displacement of vulnerable communities, especially in the Cape Winelands, Cape Metropole and western Overberg.  Another video doing the rounds on social media shows foam created due to the strong winds and waves. There is also a risk to life due to fast-moving streams, damaged roads and low bridges. Disruption of traffic is likely, as well as increased risk of motor vehicle accidents. Vulnerable areas are likely to experience disruption to essential services. The SAWS said that the cold front will spread to the remainder of the country on Tuesday and Wednesday when minimum temperatures are expected to plummet significantly, with widespread frost predicted for Wednesday morning across the central interior of the country, northern areas of the Eastern Cape, eastern areas of the Northern Cape, extreme southern areas of the North West and Gauteng as well as the Free State.  Strong winds buffet Hermanus. Video credit: Lizette Voight The SAWS said it will continue to monitor any further developments relating to this weather system and will issue updates as and when necessary.