 The Triton Xtreme, only available as the 4×4 Double Cab Auto, offers much more than an attractive, bold, and adventurous look, including a higher attitude taking its already impressive off-road abilities to new heights. “We are launching the Triton Xtreme for owners with an extreme lifestyle at only a small premium over the existing 4×4 Auto flagship,” says Nic Campbell, general manager of Mitsubishi Motors South Africa (MMSA). “The new derivative is extreme on all levels, especially looks, that show its owner follows an extreme lifestyle and is not shy about it. From the outside, the new Xtreme will be turning heads at a distance thanks to a host of visual improvements all over,” says Campbell. This adventure-styled double cab bakkie is powered by the powerful, refined and super-responsive 2.4-litre MIVEC turbo diesel engine coupled to Mitsubishi’s unique Super Select II 4WD system with electronic off-road assistance.  ALSO READ: Calm returns to Mbombela after yesterday’s taxi protests Refined Beyond Tough Although most of the upgrades are on the outside, the Triton Xtreme also boasts some additional equipment under the skin. Combined with the electronic off-road assistance coupled to the Super Select II 4WD system with the option of full-time all-wheel drive with high and low range and a centre diff-lock option as well as selectable two-wheel drive, the Triton Xtreme makes child’s play of the most extreme adventure driving conditions. Inside On the inside there is a Sport automatic shift knob and Android Auto and Apple CarPlay with extra features to mirror your smart device. With this feature you can get directions, make and receive calls, send and receive messages, and listen to your favourite downloaded music. Most importantly, you can do all of this without fumbling around with your full attention staying focused on the road.  ALSO READ: Continental rubber is good for both driving and running Out of view, but equally practical, the Triton Xtreme also boasts new “Ezydown” hydraulic dampers allowing the tailgate to open at a whisper. The load box now has professionally applied rubberising, protecting the vehicle and the contents in the back, especially adventure owners’ expensive and sometimes delicate extreme sports gear. Outside The Xtreme gets a distinctive new black bumper and grill combo as well as a bonnet protector and headlight covers, removing the risk of stone chips on and off the road. Other exterior additions giving the 2020 Triton Xtreme its extreme looks include Xtreme branding, 4×4 stickers, door handle cups to protect the paint against nail scratches, roof rack supports for adventure lifestyle gear such as surfboards, window visors and taillight covers. A bold-looking Kekosport style bar in black is mounted behind the cab and offers outstanding looks as well as additional protection.  ALSO READ: Auto industry employs modern methodologies to fight back “Apart from these changes, probably the most visible addition is the fender flare kit fitted with visible bolts, giving the Triton Xtreme a wider look,” says Campbell. “The new vehicle also gets A-line Hazard mag wheels in black, shod with Pirelli Scorpion All Terrain tyres and the Xtreme model also gets a Bosal tow bar.” Safety The Triton retains its full and comprehensive active and passive safety kit. This includes Electronic Off-Road Assistance that enhances the Super Select II 4WD system by means of Hill Descent Control for additional safety off the road. The Triton Xtreme has an extreme off-road performance of a 28 degree approach angle, 23 degree departure angle and 25 degree break-over angle to conquer extreme off-road driving conditions.   ALSO READ: Third robbery in as many months at Good Luck Supermarket in Barberton Automatic Stability and Traction Control (ASTC) is an important safety feature in rain and on gravel roads whilst working with S-AWC to provide maximum safety and driver control, while Hill Start Assist (HAS) prevents the vehicle from rolling back on an incline. The Xtreme also boasts a seven-airbag system for increased safety for every seat, while Mitsubishi’s advanced RISE (Reinforced Impact Safety Evolution) Body Construction utilises crumple zones that route and absorb energy during high-impact collisions. Side Impact Protection Bars in the doors add to the vehicle’s impressive passive safety features which include ISOFIX child seat anchors.  ALSO READ: A plan hatched by Charles Spencer created the Range Rover Warranty and service The Mitsubishi Triton Xtreme is covered by the original Mitsubishi Motors’ Manufacturer’s Warranty of 3 years or 100 000km, a 5-year/90 000km Service Plan and a 5-year/unlimited mileage Roadside Assistance. Service intervals are scheduled at every 15 000 km or once a year. Pricing: Triton Xtreme Double Cab 4WD Auto – R639 995,95. QuickPic