 “We are extremely grateful for the overwhelming support we received. Donations towards the shop were still streaming in on Saturday,” said Elmarie du Toit, fundraiser for Nelspruit Hospice. A fantastic range of quality preloved clothing, books, kitchenware, crockery, toys, plants, fruit, vegetables and tasty treats were on sale. Du Toit also added that they are invigorated by the support shown and are now planning to make this a bi-monthly event. As per government regulations, strict Covid-19 coronavirus protocols were adhered to and Nelspruit Hospice volunteers were on hand to help with visitor registers and sanitising. The Pop-Up Shop with a Purpose is a great place to find bargains and Nelspruit Hospice is requesting that people to donate good quality items to help keep their shop brimming with interesting finds at very reasonable prices. ALSO READ: Photographer reveals the real story behind his viral lion photo By supporting Nelspruit Hospice fundraising initiatives such as these, the organisation is able to continue doing vital work in the community by caring for people with life-threatening diseases, and providing support to their families. Nelspruit Hospice is a non-profit organisation that provides palliative home-based care to anyone diagnosed with life threatening diseases, in a radius of 30 kilometres in and around Nelspruit. They do not receive any funding from the government, and their main source of income is through fundraising initiatives and donations from the public. On average, Nelspruit Hospice cares for 40 patients and their families every month and the demand for their quality palliative home care services is increasing. ALSO READ: Local Toastmasters club chooses new committee Should you wish to make a monetary donation, either once-off or monthly, their banking details are: Nelspruit Hospice, First National Bank, Pinnacle, Account number: 62093964891, Branch code: 250016. Please use your surname as a reference. An 18(A) certificate for tax purposes will be issued for donations over R500. Contact Nelspruit Hospice on 013-744 0095 or email reception@nelspruithospice.co.za. Visit its Facebook page Nelspruit Hospice or website www.nelspruithospice.co.za for more information.