 After all, Kawasaki started building motorcycles as a marketing exercise to create brand awareness. The H2 was a 1 000cc supercharged rocket ship with a unique paint job. Initially, I thought that the H2 would be a once-off, but Kawasaki put a more economical version of the engine into their sports tourer and called it the H2 SX.  But Kawasaki was not done yet. Their naked Z bikes seemed like another platform that could get the H2 treatment.
Jamming an engine with just a shade under 200hp into a naked bike seems like madness, but the current crop of powerful naked bikes is expanding. This class includes bikes like the KTM 1290 Superduke and Ducati’s new Streetfighter, to name a few. The massive engine sits in a Kawasaki-green trellis frame and is rather bulky. A fact that is evident when you mount the Z H2. The tank forces your legs out and has a pronounced hump in it. This accentuates the whole crouching stance of the bike. Kawasaki calls this design philosophy Sugomi. It reminds you of a predator, ready to pounce.
From the front, the bike looks aggressive and asymmetric. That is because there is a gaping vent on the one side of the bike that forces air into the supercharger.  The seat is comfortable and the seating position is upright. Kawasaki has finally ditched their ageing instrument cluster for a modern, full-colour TFT. There are two different styles to choose from, but the important thing is that you can link the screen to your phone. With Kawasaki’s Rideology app you can record every input from the bike to replay your entire trip. The amount of information the app tracks is astounding. It even tracks your lean angles and G-forces. Riding the Z H2 was an outright attack on all my senses. The acceleration is simply brutal and being naked, it is up to you to hold on. There is no fairing to hide behind. As you decelerate, the supercharger chirps with a delightful sound. The remarkable thing about the Z though is the electronic rider aids. The Z H2 even has launch control to give you the best chance at a quick getaway, but that feature is reserved for the bravest of the brave and I don’t fall into that category. If you just want to take a relaxed cruise down the highway, the Z is equipped with cruise control.
You will have to bring something really special if you want to challenge the Z H2 in an all-out drag race, yet it is docile and comfortable enough to be used as an everyday commuter. My week with the Z H2 will stay with me for a long time and I am glad Kawasaki keeps pushing the boundaries of what is possible. Brian Cheyne