 MBOMBELA – The Lowveld is renowned for its rich bird life and is an attraction for bird watchers from all over the world and Marc Cronje, an international birding guide, spent some time at the Bardolino Homegrown Drive-Through Market to take some locals on a tour of the property to show off its bird community. “I had been to the Bardolino property to do a walk with Walter Thornhill and know the property has some exceptional birding and knew people would love birding on the property,” he said. “Due to the Covid-19 regulations, I am unable to guide internationally as we cannot travel,” Cronje said on Saturday. “The birding tour on Saturday provided the opportunity for me to generate an income.” Cronje is currently offering his services as a professional bird and wildlife guide to the public to join him on a birding trip around the Lowveld and also into the Kruger National Park. “I can join folks on a bird-watching trip in the Kruger. I will meet you at the gate and hop into your car and guide you around southern Kruger and help you with birding for the day. I have an extensive knowledge of the birds and birding in Kruger. “I will charge a small fee to make a living during this crazy time. I can compile bird lists for your property, estate, lodge or farm. I can also join people on trips locally to go and find and enjoy the birds we have in and around the Lowveld. I am flexible and able to adjust to people needs, skill level, interests, and expertise.” White-fronted Bee-eater. Photo by Marc Cronje. Cronje is a keen wildlife photographer and also does wildlife and birding photography trips. ALSO READ: Support others, a stall at a time He can also help with using the Birdlasser application and contributing to SABAP2 (citizen science). Cronje was born in Johannesburg and his keen interest in wildlife and birding comes from being brought up in the Johannesburg Zoo, where his father was the curator of primates and small cats. He moved down to the Lowveld when his family started Chimp Eden, the first chimpanzee sanctuary in South Africa, which is affiliated with the Jane Goodall Institute. Cronje worked at the sanctuary for five years. He spends most of his days in the wild leading birding and wildlife tours across Southern Africa. Cronje has also led bird-watching tours to Spain, Costa Rica, India and Sri Lanka. Cronje has been a guide for just over eight years and has a degree in nature conservation. “I am a THEATA/FGASA Level 2 Guide who sits on the Birdlife Lowveld Committee. I am a keen bird lister and have seen just over 800 species of birds within Southern Africa and over 1 500 species within Africa. My current world list sits at just over 2000 species of birds. I love sharing my passion,” he explained. He is actively involved in research projects, including the Southern African Bird Atlas project and Wild Dog monitoring within the Kruger National Park. ALSO READ: Support local with the Bardolino Homegrown Drive-through Market Cronje will be doing another guided birding walk at Bardolino on July 25. He gives the following advice to new bird watchers: “Make sure to enjoy the birding whenever you can and appreciate being out in nature. Keep practising and try to learn a new bird and call each day. The more time one spends in the field the better birder you become and it becomes easier to ID the different birds. The bird calls are an important aspect of birding.” To get into contact with Cronje, send an email to marc.cronje1991@gmail.com or phone 083-705-6436. You can also visit the website (www.naturetravelbirding.com) and Facebook page, Nature Travel Birding. African Hoopoe. Photo by Marc Cronje. Here is a list of the birds seen during the last tour with Cronje at Bardolino: African Goshawk
Ring-necked Dove
Black-headed Oriole
Lesser Honeyguide
Yellow-fronted Canary
Cardinal Woodpecker
Red-winged Starling
Bearded Woodpecker
Cape Starling
Emerald-spotted Wood Dove
Scarlet-chested Sunbird
Greater Double-collared Sunbird
Collared Sunbird
Bronze Mannikin
Hadada Ibis
Crested Barbet
Black-collared Barbet
Streaky-headed Seedeater
White-fronted Bee-eater
Cape Weaver
Southern Boubou
Speckled Mousebird
Holub’s Golden Weaver
Arrow-marked Babbler
African wattled Lapwing
African Firefinch
Blue Waxbill
Spectacled Weaver
Tawny-flanked Prinia
Yellow-rumped Tinkerbird
Long-crested Eagle
Common Scimitarbill
Rock Martin
African Palm Swift
African Hoopoe
Yellow-breasted Apalis
Southern Fiscal
Pin-tailed Whydah
Red-throated Wryneck
Bar-throated Apalis
White-browed Robin Chat
Dark-capped Bulbul
Laughing Dove
Red-eyed Dove
Kurrichane Thrush
Brown-hooded Kingfisher
Purple-crested Turaco
Ashy Flycatcher
Fork-tailed Drongo
Southern Black Flycatcher
Egyptian Goose
African Fish Eagle
Crowned Hornbill
Southern Grey-headed Sparrow
Natal Spurfowl
Amethyst Sunbird ALSO READ: Local family on a mission to make a difference in Albania