 It is important though to remember that one should always involve and value the opinion of every member of staff when drastic changes are dictated by conditions like we are currently experiencing. Wesbank is the leader in vehicle and asset finance so it came as no surprise that the head of SME Segment, Futhi Cabe decided to reach out to small business and business owners with advice on how to shift from “the old to the new” within their business. “Brainstorming has been recognised as a powerful tool to generate new ideas and business solutions and within a set time limit,” he said. READ: Calm returns to Mbombela after yesterday’s taxi protests It does require an open mind from all involved though. “Other people’s ideas should never be criticised as one can build on every idea. Quality is more important than quantity.” Clarity about the reason and intention of a brainstorming session is imperative and critical to ensure its productivity. All ideas should be recorded on a flipchart or whiteboard. Brainstorming is an intense high-energy exercise and should not last longer than usually 15 to 45 minutes. Once the initial ideas have been recorded, team members need to be encouraged to now escalate similar and alike ideas while that which is left, are discarded. “This will almost always present one with ideas that are impossible, unlikely or possible,” suggests Cabe. “Unlikely ideas should never be ruled out from the equation. All possible ideas should immediately be explored, defined, prioritised and implemented as it will create forward movement and energise your team.” ALSO READ: Pilot died near Elandshoek saving four lives In all businesses though one finds those staff members for who participating in these high-energy exercises are challenging and even intimidating. “Brainwriting, an alternative to brainstorming should then be employed. Each team member is invited to list four ideas on a sheet of paper which is placed on a table for all to read. It is critical to always respect, listen (without interruption) and afford each team member an opportunity to express his/her ideas before any new direction, product or service decision is made and implemented. Photo: Wesbank.