The availability of beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients in private hospitals in Mbombela is under significant pressure. According to Candice Peterson, marketing manager of Kiaat Hospital, doctors and hospital management are monitoring the situation and doing their best to ensure local residents are provided the best possible care during these times. ALSO READ: At least 12 Covid-19 cases recorded at Mpumalanga police stations in one week “Upon presentation at our emergency care unit, the hospital assesses the patient to determine whether the patient’s needs can be catered for by the hospital, or if it’s in the best interest of the patient to transfer to other facilities,” she said. Mbombela citizens are advised to take precautionary measures of wearing a mask, hand washing and social distancing. This will assist in reducing the spread of the virus and ensure that beds are not placed under pressure in our facilities,” she said. Mediclinic Nelspruit is not fully occupied at present and remains capable of treating patients requiring care for Covid-19 and conditions unrelated to the pandemic. To date, the hospital has transferred only one patient to another local facility. But, said Dr Stefan Smuts, chief clinical officer of Mediclinic Southern Africa, Covid-19 has placed increased demand on critical care resources, in particular. “Hospital bed capacity remains fluid and is liable to change. This situation is continuously monitored across all bed types and across all our hospitals, to ensure the optimal use of available resources and continuity of quality patient care. IN PHOTOS:  Covid-19 screenings conducted in Steiltes “Where hospitals are experiencing a high volume of patients, we will introduce a diversion policy to reduce ambulance transport time, and direct the emergency vehicle to the nearest available hospital. Hospital management will make the decision to divert only after evaluating the case and if it is decided that current alternative measures cannot resolve the reason for diversion,” he said. According to the latest statistics released by the Mpumalanga Department of Health, the City of Mbombela has 661 active Covid-19 cases. ALSO READ: 312 new deaths bring the total to 6 655 The Department of Health has not yet responded to questions on the availability of beds in state hospitals.