The house sleeps 10 and can comfortably accommodate a group of friends or family of all ages. Its five bedrooms are all en suite, giving everyone their own space. When relaxing together, you will have a full kitchen, dining and lounge area, river-facing deck, furnished patio and pool area to spread out in.  And you barely have to move to spot the animals. The more private self-catering unit is set next to the main lodge with its own position on the watering hole. It is a prime location that sees much of the reserve’s wildlife come by and you will have front row seats on your deck over the water.  But when the wild and freedom call, you will have a dedicated ranger and tracker, along with a private safari vehicle, to take you into the Sabi Sand. It is your own personal adventure! In one of the world’s most abundant wilderness areas, you will experience incredible game viewing and it is almost certain you will tick off all of the Big 5, but you decide what to focus on. The scenery is equally spectacular. You will have a very special opportunity to explore on early-morning bush walks led by your highly-trained guiding team. There is something about getting down on foot that heightens the sense of discovery. Perhaps it is the time to birdwatch (there are more 300 species to look out for), track an aardvark heading back to its burrow, and appreciate your surrounds from the shade of an umbrella thorn.  Between the hours spent in the bush, there is also plenty of time to unwind. While the unit is self-catering, you will have your own housekeeper, as well as enjoy every other comfort and luxury that an Arathusa safari lodge stay has to offer. It is the ideal kind of holiday that offers not just a change of scenery, but also the best of exciting adventures, complete relaxation, and quality time together. R17 250 per night for up to 10 guests* on an exclusive use, self-catering basis Includes: All specified safari activities; expert guiding by a personal ranger and tracker on a private safari vehicle; daily unit cleaning and the services of a dedicated housekeeper; bed linen, as well as bath and swimming towels provided * Children of all ages are welcome    