Kindly bring content of this circular without any delay to the attention of all the eligible employees even if they are on leave or absent from work. (Re-advertisement, candidates who applied previously may re-apply if still interested)
Nelspruit Campus Ref: EHL19/2020
Barberton Campus Ref: EHL20/2020
Mlumati Campus Ref: EHL21/2020
Mthimba Campus Ref: EHL22/2020
Kanyamazane Campus Ref: EHL23/2020
Mapulaneng Campus Ref: EHL24/2020 Salary: R257 508 .00 SL7 Requirements: Key performance areas: Any other duties assigned by the supervisor. For further details on the advert please go to www.ehlanzenicollege.co.za  Mthimba Campus: Ref: EHL 25/2020
Salary notch: R102 534.00 SL2 Requirements: Key Performance Areas: Any other duties assigned by the supervisor. For further details on the advert please go to www.ehlanzenicollege.co.za Relevant Employment Acts will be considered when filling these positions. Applications should be submitted on form Z83 obtainable from any Public Services Departments, stating the relevant reference number, a recent updated CV, as well as originally certified copies of all qualifications including academic record, ID document and driver’s license. Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your application not being considered. No faxed applications will be considered. The College reserves the right to withdraw the post at any time. Communication will only be entered into with short-listed and the successful candidates. If you have not heard from us within 3 months after the closing date, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The employer is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical targets as contained in our Employment Equity Plan. The Employer reserves the right not to make an appointment. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a skills test. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a qualifications and citizen verification; criminal record and financial/asset record checks. Applicants who have not been invited for an interview within 60 days of the closing date should consider their application unsuccessful. Mr. FRS Malinga – (013) 752 7105.
Kindly forward all applications to: The Human Resource Manager, Ehlanzeni TVET College, Private Bag X11297, Nelspruit, 1200 or hand – deliver to the Corporate Centre at 29 Bell Street, Nelspruit, 1200.  