 This decision, said Volkswagen, can be attributed to the rapid growth in the SUV market – 40 per cent over the period 2015 to 2019. VW refers to the T-Roc as a compact-class crossover offering benchmark setting functionality, dynamic handling and technology.
The T-Roc will be available in two derivatives; 1.4 TSI 110kW Design, 2.0 TSI 140kW 4MOTION DSG Design and the 2.0 TSI 140kW 4MOTION DSG R-Line. Exterior design The front end sports a wide radiator grille unit with integrated dual headlights. The off-road look is enhanced by all-round, dark plastic trim and presents the T-Roc with a sportier look.
The Design derivatives come standard with the 17-inch Mayfield alloy wheels while the R-Line will be kitted 19-inch Suzuka alloy wheels. The T-Roc 80mm longer than the T-Cross and 162mm shorter than the Tiguan and with five passengers, its luggage space is 445 litres. Should you split the backrest of the rear seats, luggage space can be increased to a whopping 1 290 litres. Interior features The interior offers infotainment systems that creates a new digital and interactive cockpit. The T-Roc will come standard with Composition Media radio and App-Connect. The latter enables wireless connectivity. The Composition Media radio has an option for compatible phones to be charged inductively. “The We Connect Go app functionality includes the following; vehicle data, access to the nearest or preferred Volkswagen dealer, records for the tax log book and gamification.” I.Q Drive technologies.

In the T-Roc, the level of passive safety features included are Electronic Stability Control (ESC), Park Distance Control, LED Headlights, Light and Vision Package, Blind Spot Monitor and Fatigue Detection. The I.Q Drive technologies included in the T-Roc are Park Assist, Emergency Assist, Front Assist, Traffic Jam Assist, Adaptive Cruise Control and Lane Assist. The T-Roc comes standard with a 3-year/120 000km warranty, 5-year/ 90 000km Volkswagen Service Plan and a 12-year anti-corrosion warranty.
Service interval is 15 000km. Pricing to be announced towards August 2020. Motorpress.