 The Automobile Association (AA) commissioned the State of Security Report. It found that 76 per cent of South Africans (1 100 were surveyed) indicated that they have been victims of a serious crime. This report also reviewed government statistics. The Report further rated South Africans sense of safety as being less than 50 per cent. Outdoors, public spaces and malls increased peoples’ increased people’s sense of vulnerability. Another finding – that of only 43,5 per cent of people, feeling safe at home, should raise serious concerns. Two months ago the AA released its own application – AA Armed Response. “We initially launched the service in December last year as an addition to our range of Rescue Me services. Based on the findings of the report the launch of AA Armed Response is not only timely but critical, given the staggering statistics of crime people are exposed to daily, especially in a worsening economy,” said Willem Groenewald, AA CEO. The app offers one button, immediate activation of armed security response. It is available to both AA members (at a reduced rate) and non-members. ALSO READ: Graskop community calls for amendments to new electricity tariffs “Our first goal is to provide South Africans with a tool to make themselves safer, and to do so at a rate everyone can afford,” Groenewald said. “The AA Armed Response is a location-based security solution which provides immediate coordinates of the user’s location to a call centre when activated. More than 160 private professional security companies throughout South Africa has been contracted on the service and the closest security provider to the user’s position, will dispatched to provide armed assistance.” ALSO READ: Official tests positive for Covid-19 at Hazyview police station “This solution is intended to provide peace-of-mind to users and their family members. The app can also be gifted to parents or guardians who sign up children to the service,” he concluded.
The app can be downloaded on your smartphone via Play Store.