 Everyone talks, one delivers. The new Actros. This is the recently launched claim for Mercedes-Benz Actros and with the new truck crowned International Truck of the Year 2020, it is clear that the brand is living up to its claim. In line with the jury rules, the title is awarded annually to the truck that makes the biggest contribution towards road transport innovations that are advantageous to the economy, emissions, safety, driveability and comfort of vehicles.  ALSO READ: Mazda coupes were legendary in the 1930’s “We are very proud and excited to introduce this phenomenal truck in the year in which it essentially holds the Global Truck of the Year title. Introducing over 64 new technological features and advancements on the Actros, Mercedes-Benz Trucks is undoubtedly committed to the ongoing development of its products to ensure lower total costs, greater safety, and maximized use for customers. Approximately two years ago, we launched the fourth generation Actros with resounding market success and today we are extremely honoured to fulfil our promise to expediently introduce the latest technology on the range without further delay,” says Maretha Gerber, head of Mercedes-Benz Trucks.  ALSO READ: A plan hatched by Charles Spencer created the Range Rover In comparison to its predecessor, customers can expect up to 5% lower fuel consumption on the advanced Actros range, of which the biggest contributor is the Predictive Powertrain Control (PPC). Mercedes-Benz Trucks is advancing trucking into a new dimension of fuel-saving driving with this technological feature. Depending on the traffic situation ahead, PPC can realise significant fuel savings.
In addition to a satellite-based positioning system, PPC uses accurate digital road maps that contain data on topography, which means the truck knows the road and route profile ahead. This allows the new Actros to employ an anticipatory driving style, saving as much fuel as possible and ensuring optimal driver support. PPC requires precise 3D Map data for effective deployment of functionality and it is in this breath that Daimler Trucks made a notable investment to ensure all primary routes and most of the secondary routes in South Africa are mapped prior to the launch of this truck.  ALSO READ: Auto industry employs modern methodologies to fight back. In addition, four other core features stand out on the Actros as follows: The MirrorCam – improves safety and maneuverability; Multimedia Cockpit; Active Brake Assist and Mercedes-Benz Uptime. Six new models have been added to the existing range, comprising three freight carries (the Arocs 3336/48, the Arocs 3340/48 and the Arocs 3352/45), an 8×4 tipper (the Arocs 4145K/51) and two all-wheel drives off road vehicles (the Arocs 1845AE/45 and the Arocs 3345AE/45). The Arcos is more functional and comfortable than ever. Furthermore, the Arocs range comes standard with a seat belt monitor, rain sensor, and rubber mats for driver and co-driver’s side.  ALSO READ: Continental rubber is good for both driving and running “With the addition of the new Actros and additional Arocs models, I am pleased to say we now boast a complete product line-up within the Heavy Duty Truck segment, that is not only unmatched in its design, but offers value for money to our customers,” concludes Gerber. Motorpress