 MBOMBELA – Gender-based violence (GBV) reports increased by 2 300 complaints or calls in the first four days of lockdown from March 27 to 31. It is against these frightening statistics that LowMed Running Club hosted a virtual race to raise awareness about this scourge on Nelson Mandela Day. According to race organiser, Gilda Mavromatis, there has been an increase in GBV and due to a positive Covid-19 case at GRIP’s head office, organisers had to revise the framework of the race. Gilda Mavromatis, Steven Mavromatis, Samuel Makamu and Manuel Ngobeni. ALSO READ: Dazzling discovery of rich gold vein at New Consort a boon for Pan African Resources “We went ahead with the awareness run on Mandela Day. However, we have now extended the race from July 18 to end on August 9, which is when we celebrate Women’s Day,” said Mavromatis. She continued, “The organisers have committed to make themselves available during this entire period to any community, organisation or news outlet to continue to raise awareness of GBV in our communities. We will also run every weekend in our campaign shirts up to and including Women’s Day.” Manuel Ngobeni, Sylvester Mkhabela (SPAR manager), Gilda Mavromatis, Sibusiso Motha, Samuel Makamu and Steven Mavromatis. ALSO READ: Second Covid-19 case at Nelspruit Police Station in less than one week results in temporary closure On Saturday, runners who signed up for the initiative met at Halls’ filling station at 07:30 to take on the approximately 15-kilometre race. “Because the idea is to be visible in all areas, the route extended from Halls, out and around Mbombela Stadium, past John Mdluli Primary School onto the N4 towards i’langa Mall. It wound on to the Kaapsehoop Road, right at the NG Kerk, around i’langa Mall and back to Halls on the N4. ALSO READ: Local family on a mission to make a difference in Albania “For social distancing purposes, only five runners per group were allowed, with entrants choosing their own routes.”
Mavromatis said an official handover of  R10 000 in SPAR vouchers and the final count of  funds raised would be donated to GRIP on Women’s Day.