 The hearing took place in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on July 7 and he will remain in custody until his next appearance on July 17. Bruwer, who was investigating serious and sensitive cases related to rhino poaching as well as police corruption, was gunned down with an AK-47 on March 17, on his way to work. The incident occurred on the R37, Mbombela/Lydenburg Road. The investigating officer, Lt Col Erhard Ströh, said in a statement that the accused was not arrested, but in fact handed himself over at Tsolo Police Station in the Eastern Cape. On April 5 he made a confession in front of Lt Col WZ Homoyi at this station. In this confession he indicated that he was sent by a middleman (who was well-known to him) to assist in a murder in Mbombela. The confession also placed him in the presence of other suspects who were present during the crime’s planning and execution. The first address the accused provided during his confession did, however, prove to be false. The second he provided was proven correct upon police investigation. ALSO READ: GRIP receives donation of R50 000 from SPAR Lowveld Ströh’s statement ended off: “This is a very serious offence and as the investigating officer I am of the opinion that the accused cannot be granted bail by the court. “The accused placed himself, through his confession statement as well as pointing out, on/near the crime scene. “It is clear from the incorrect first address given by the accused that he is not playing open cards with the police and can be seen as a flight risk.” As the burden rested upon the accused to provide reasons for bail in a schedule six offence, he stated that: ALSO READ: Lowveld’s last Dromader flies into the sunset • He has two children, aged four and seven, who are financially dependent on him. • His life is threatened in prison by “the friends of the police officials who are also suspected to be involved in this current case” and also “by one prisoner who I regard as being a hitman who was instructed to kill me in prison”. • He has livestock that are not being cared for while he is in custody and they are his main source of income. • He handed himself over to the police. According to the accused’s statement, he has no previous convictions and also no cases pending against him. The state only became aware of the alleged threats to the accused’s life during the July 7 hearing. This, as well as some discrepancies related to the accused’s fingerprints that are on record, will be investigated so as to continue with the opposed bail application on July 17. ALSO READ: Buscor doubles up on routes to ease commuters’ 50% capacity woes Salela is accused of premeditated murder, to which he pleaded not guilty.