 The local tourism sector continues to show that it is a force to be reckoned with. Various tourism role players came together on July 22 to form part of a slow-drive protest, starting at the Casterbridge Lifestyle Centre and making their way to Mbombela.  The movement first gained momentum on July 17 when more than 60 vehicles drove the same route. ALSO READ: Tourism industry across the country takes a stand against regulations The difference this time being that they requested the MEC for finance, economic development and tourism, Pat Ngomane, to be at the Government Complex to receive a mission statement outlining the dire situation of tourism.  More than 100 vehicles took part in the latest drive, seven of which were large Citybug buses. The rest consisted of open safari vehicles, minibuses, bakkies and sedans, many of which had signs on the sides or backs voicing the owners’ personal tourism concerns or requests to #OpenTourism.  Once the convoy arrived at the Government Complex, it drove around the two traffic circles and then stationed itself on both sides of Eastern Boulevard in a show of strength while awaiting the MEC’s arrival. Hylton Langley, a White River-based tour operator and the man who started the movement, addressed Ngomane before handing over the mission statement.  According to the Tourism Business Council of South Africa, the tourism industry is losing R748 million per day during lockdown. Langley made mention of this and also the fact that taxis are allowed to operate at full capacity, whereas tour operators cannot even fill their vehicles up to 70 per cent for guided tours to destinations like the Kruger National Park.  “Good for them (the taxis), they fought back. It was said ‘they are suffering, they can’t pay their bills’, well, none of us can pay our bills,” said Langley. “We are a sharp industry. We will get all things in place. Tanzania, Namibia and Zambia have opened up for international tourism. We can learn from them. ALSO SEE: IN PHOTOS: Tourism sector takes fight for survival to the R40 “Tonight when you are with your family, think, you’ve got it good, and we are happy for you, but you cannot just leave us lying like this. We feel as though we have been kicked between the legs.” The MEC in turn said tourism is a gold mine in Mpumalanga.  “I cannot be happy and the government of Mpumalanga cannot be happy if the tourism industry is on its knees. We want to see tourism rising again. “I will take the message to the channel where it belongs. Where I am, there is no decision I can make, but I can assist,” said Ngomane. Langley requested a timeline for when they might be able to operate again. “We need a timeline. We are just hanging in the air. We need to know. You need to give us hope. “You say that you care. None of us, unfortunately, have heard you caring.  “I’m not here to fight with you, but you know when a cat is against a wall and the dogs are there, he’s going to fight like mad. That’s where we are.” Ngomane said again that he is not in a position to provide a timeline, but “I will be a happy person if I can see you operate tomorrow, as long as people are safe”.  He said the mission statement will reach the right channel on the same day. “I’m failing at my duty if tourism is not functioning. I’m not sleeping, also. I’m going to be part of the noise. If you had one noise, you now have two noises with me,” said Ngomane.