 According to the International Ranger Federation (IRF), World Ranger Day is celebrated worldwide on July 31 to pay tribute to rangers who were killed or injured in the line of duty, and to celebrate the work they do to protect the planet’s natural treasures and cultural heritage. This year, Chris Galliers, president of the IRF, “Today we have an opportunity to reflect on the exceptional work carried out by rangers and those who continuously put their lives at risk and remain at the forefront of conservation. ALSO READ: SANParks nominated for multiple Rhino Conservation Awards “We also get to give recognition and our full respect to those who lost their lives in the preceding year and acknowledge the many growing challenges and threats to rangers globally.” Galliers said over the past year, there has been the highest number of recorded ranger fatalities since the start of the Roll of Honour, totalling 137 deaths. “We know that this number could be considerably higher, as not all deaths are reported or publicised. “The number is still unacceptably high, with 1 013 recorded ranger fatalities over the past decade. This is of major concern,” he added. Ranger deaths across the world as reported by the IRF. “We, as the ranger family, share in the loss of our colleagues and their families, and seek to honour them on World Ranger Day for all that they have contributed to the profession and conservation as a whole.” In his message, Galliers further detailed that of the seven IRF regions, Asia had the greatest number of rangers killed, making up 48 per cent of all those reported, while Africa had the second highest number at 30 per cent. The main cause of death of rangers on duty was homicide (43 deaths; 31 per cent of all incidents), with these also occurring mostly in Africa and Asia. ALSO READ: Nashua lends a hand to the paws in need In addition, the environment in which they work can be hostile and dangerous as they are often threatened by the very animals they serve to protect. Animals accounted for the second highest cause of ranger fatalities, with 24 deaths (18 per cent of all incidents). Galliers lastly thanked all those who supported rangers in their daily tasks, especially their families for their strength and sacrifices.