 Teli Elson Molotha (59) and Sandile Victor Ngcobo (44) were nabbed by police in Mhluzi near Middelburg. According to police spokesperson, Brig Leonard Hlathi, they were in possession of explosives and stained money at the time of their arrest. Hlathi said that Molotha and Ngcobo were attached to the South African National Defence Force base in Middelburg and were arrested after two ATM bombings in Badplaas on Monday.
The suspects are believed to be part of a six-man gang that has allegedly been involved in ATM bombings and cash robberies. He added that Molotha and Ngcobo were remanded in custody until their bail application next Wednesday. The two men will appear in the Carolina Magistrate’s Court for the ATM bombings. “They were allegedly part of a group of six heavily armed men who stormed into a filling station in Badplaas, held a security guard at gunpoint and threatened to set him alight. They also detonated two bombs at ATMs before fleeing the scene with an undisclosed amount of cash. A manhunt has been launched to apprehend the remaining suspects and anyone who has information about their whereabouts is asked to contact WO Nkosinathi Ndaba on 082-318-9530. Two filling stations were robbed in KaBokweni and Mmamthlake on Monday. ALSO READ: Nashua lends a hand to the paws in need According to Hlathi, 15 suspects on foot and armed with high calibre weapons stormed the convenience store in KaBokweni. “They blasted safes in the shop, took an undisclosed amount of cash then fled the scene on foot. No arrests have been made yet. “Anyone with information that will help police in their investigation is requested to contact Capt Shaka Nkosi on 071-200-1669,” he said. In Mmamethlake, a group of more than three armed men blasted two ATMs before fleeing the scene with an undisclosed amount of cash. “A security guard sustained injuries during the incident which resulted in the police opening an additional case of attempted murder. No one has been arrested and the community can participate in the investigation by calling Capt Solomon Moshime on 082-065-1355. The provincial police commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, welcomed the arrests and issued an instruction that the police conduct a thorough investigation. “We believe that the arrest of the two men is a great achievement and that more arrests are imminent,” said Zuma.