2020 seemed to be a promising year, being the start of a new decade. Yet, in a dramatic turn of events precipitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, humanity has recorded a global economic crisis which has impacted various segments of our economy and affected the job market. With the current scarcity of jobs, standing out from a large crowd of job seekers is important. With an immaculate CV at hand, and the right job searching tools and resources, you could catch the eye of potential recruiters. However, not everyone has access to a computer to manage the whole job process. With that in mind, HUAWEI Mobile Services’ app store, HUAWEI AppGallery, has curated a collection of top partner apps to help with everything from putting together your CV, scanning documents, and searching for your dream job.  TOP CAREER PORTAL APPS We no longer send job applications via the postal system because we have career or online job portals at our disposal. These job application tools are designed to help people find jobs in any location. Here are some top app versions popular in South Africa:  Job Mail Job Mail is one of the most popular job portals in South Africa. It’s not hard to see, when Job Mail gives you access to over 14,000 vacancies every single day. In just 3 steps, you’re well on your way to finding your dream job with Job Mail. Just register your CV, set up alerts for the kind of jobs you are looking for and start applying.  Pnet Not only is Pnet one of the leading job portals, it is also an e-recruitment service provider. As you are looking for a job, recruiters may also be looking for a candidate just like you. The app has a great feature called “Who’s hiring” which allows you to search for positions offered by different companies.  That way, if you have preferred companies you would like to work for, you can conveniently check if they are currently hiring.  Careers24
Another cool, free and easy to use job search app is Careers24. This app goes beyond just being a job search tool. It helps you navigate your career path by providing free career advice. With a profile management feature, you can always tweak and update your profile as you need to.  JOB TODAY JOB TODAY is perfect for you if you want to work in the retail, hospitality and services industry.
The application is switching up the standard in terms of the way candidates find jobs and how employers hire staff. The app is pretty cool in that, recruiters are able to interview candidates and hire staff using the app.  Career Junction Career Junction was designed with South African job seekers in mind to help people find job opportunities in locations such as Gauteng, Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal.  The app allows you to search vacancies in top companies such as ABSA, Standard Bank, SARS and more in top industries such as IT, Finance, Engineering, and Sales.  Freelancer With the gig economy becoming more popular in South Africa, people prefer to work from gig to gig as freelancers, so that means having to often look for the next pay check.  The Freelancer app is the perfect place to profile yourself and find work from anywhere in the world. Freelancer is an award-winning platform with the largest freelancing and crowdsourcing marketplace that connects employers and freelancers.  DOCUMENT SCANNER APPS Job hunting means getting your documents in order – qualification certificates, ID, payslips etc. to be able to submit them as requested for a job application. Going out to the printer shop to scan copies is a mission you no longer have to undertake. HUAWEI AppGallery has a selection of apps such as CamScanner and Document Scanner to help in this regard.  CV MAKING APPS A CV document, is the most important document when job hunting, as it creates a first impression about you as a professional. It helps you get noticed by recruiters and essentially gives you a foot in the door. HUAWEI AppGallery has a number of free CV making apps, to ensure that your CV is professional and of industry standard. These free applications are available to you to develop a great CV that could land you your dream job. With such a variety of quality apps to aid you in your journey to employment, if you’re currently unemployed, you can invest time working on and refining your CV. Never say never, you could land your dream job.  Download all these apps and more on HUAWEI AppGallery.