 The Zwane family of Empuluzi was left without a roof over their heads and in the cold after a fire devoured their house. According to Sandra Zwane, life has been tough for her family since the fire. The incident happened on Monday night while the family was praying in the living room.
It is suspected that the fire was caused by an electric fault. “We are still shocked, but happy to be alive. My father sustained minor burn wounds and we are happy that no one died,” said Zwane. She said with the help of neighbours they tried to put out the fire, but it was just too strong. “We tried everything but was just not enough. We are taking it one day at a time but it is very hard as we are now forced to seek accommodation from neighbours and good Samaritans. “The sad part is that when the fire broke out we couldn’t save even a shirt or blanket and as a result we were left with absolutely nothing but the pyjamas we had on before going to bed.” Read: Self-confessed arsonist remains in custody She said the family would accept any donation from good Samaritans at this point as they have absolutely nothing and it would probably take a very long time to rebuild what was lost in the fire. “Any kind of help is welcome at this point. We have seen local business people helping out those in need and we are also praying for a miracle because that’s what we need at this time,” she continued. Upon hearing the news, the Mpumalanga Moral Regeneration Movement chairperson, Rev Simon Ntali made a plea to good Samaritans and local businesses to come together for a noble cause and help this family in need. Read: Mandla Mamba and Njabulo Mkhonto’s bail application postponed to Wednesday “This is the time to show that caring spirit we inherited from our great father, Mandela. Let us celebrate and honour his legacy by doing good for humanity. Here is a family in need of our support, let us all roll our sleeves up and help out wherever we can. The Moral Regeneration stands for noble deeds and our thoughts and prayers are with this family and many other families in similar situation out there,” said Ntali.
To help please call Zwane on 071-224-4191 or Mpumalanga News on 072-866-3684