 In a statement released on July 13, the parks elaborated on how they support their staff during the time of the Covid-19 pandemic. “From the early announcements in March about Covid-19 until today, South African National Parks, like any other organisation, has had to reconfigure some of its practices in response to the challenges brought about by the pandemic,” the statement read. ALSO READ: Baby rhino in epic rescue SANParks chief executive officer Fundisile Mketeni said this included arrangement of temporary accommodation for staff living within the living quarters in various national parks. “The reality is that all sectors of society have a contribution to make in curbing the spread of the coronavirus – and this includes implementing extraordinary measures.” With the introduction of a lockdown, SANParks, like many other employers, encouraged most employees to work from home and only a limited number remained in various parks as part of essential services. ALSO READ: Nature’s mischief at Skukuza Golf Club “These include rangers, anti-poaching officials and infrastructure-maintenance personnel. “To reduce cross-contamination risks among staff residing in the parks, some staff members have been temporarily accommodated in a portion of tourism facilities in a number of national parks.” According to Mketeni, “this situation has provided an opportunity to carry out much needed maintenance and improvements to staff accommodation”. ALSO SEE: IN PHOTOS: Tourism sector takes fight for survival to the R40 He concluded by addressing the rumours that these arrangements influenced overnight accommodation for guests. “These unusual circumstances of staff being accommodated in tourist facilities have no bearing on overnight facilities in the national parks remaining closed. “The parks are unable to open to overnight visitors due to the fact that leisure tourism is not yet permitted under level-three lockdown.” ALSO READ: Hippo killed in crash on road between Mbombela and Malalane There has been much confusion surrounding the legality of leisure travel and accommodation. Day visits to the parks are still allowed, but overnight stays are not. The latest specifics, at this stage making leisure overnight stays illegal, were gazetted on July 12.