 Despite registered accommodation establishments being allowed to open under the newly released regulations, both the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) and the Kruger National Park (KNP) have yet to indicate when they will provide overnight options for guests. ALSO READ: Photographer reveals the real story behind his viral lion photo Kholofelo Nkambule, MTPA spokesperson, confirmed that currently their reserves that have overnight facilities are not yet offering these to the public. Since the reopening of reserves and attractions for day visits, Nkambule said the visitation numbers have been very low. “We anticipate that it will take a while for people to start visiting again, especially since interprovincial travel is still not allowed. “We rely on locals to explore the attractions. It’s going to be a long way forward.” Isaac Phaahla, spokesperson for the KNP, said there is no news on when or whether it would offer visitors to the park the option of an overnight stay. Linda Grimbeek, COO of the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT), said it will definitely make a difference once the Kruger opens up for accommodation. ALSO READ: Travelling for tourism: Level 3 lockdown rules explained When it comes to other accommodation establishments, she said, “I believe everyone is ready to open, seeing as regulations are basically the same as those they had to adhere to with business travellers.” Grimbeek said some of the establishments might remain closed as it is simply not worth it to open at this stage. Others, especially smaller establishments in rural areas, are offering specials to get locals to come and stay over. This is usually paired with an enjoyable activity. “I’m overjoyed to see how tour operators and accommodation establishments work together to get business.” In terms of capacity, the regulations do not limit establishments to a certain number of people, but as soon as it exceeds the 50 person mark, there are additional regulations to be adhered to. ALSO READ: Tourism and hospitality: Relaxed lockdown level 3 dos and dont’s Grimbeek said there are unfortunately a number of establishments that simply will not open their doors again at all. “It is tragic and we really don’t know how things will go moving forward. If interprovincial travel does not open soon, it’s only going to get worse.” She summarised that if the tourism industry suffers, the Lowveld suffers. “It will have a huge impact if places continue to close their doors.”