 “South Africa was the first export market for the Seltos, and its combination of sharp design, generous space and solid build quality has proved great sales success,” commented Gary Scott, CEO, KIA Motors South Africa. “We are confident that the new turbodiesel variants will continue to surprise and delight customers.” The new Seltos CRDI is powered by KIA’s new-generation 1 493cc UII common-rail direct injection engine, delivering 86kW and 250Nm.  Acceleration to 100km/h is completed in 11,5 seconds, with a maximum speed of 176km/h. CO2 emissions in the combined cycle are 134g/km on models equipped with a manual transmission, and 151g/km in automatic variants. The new KIA Seltos CRDI is available in a choice of two specification levels that mirror its petrol-powered siblings. EX models are available with a 6-speed manual transmission or a 6-speed automatic transmission, while EX+ models are only available with a 6-speed automatic transmission.  The entry-level EX offers a vast array of standard features such as air-conditioning, automatic headlight control (including an ‘escort’ and ‘welcome home’ function), electrically adjustable side mirrors with integrated indicators, cloth upholstery, steering wheel-mounted remote controls, electric windows, cruise control, and an 8-inch colour touchscreen infotainment system that incorporates a radio with RDS, linked to six speakers. ALSO READ: Sassa moves operations to Ferreira Street after freeze out in Bester Street offices The latter includes Apple CarPlay and Android Auto for smartphone mirroring, as well as Bluetooth connectivity with voice recognition, and has charging USB ports for front and rear passengers.  A full-sized spare wheel is standard. The CRDI EX+ is only available with a six-speed automatic transmission.
All models are equipped with six airbags as standard. All Seltos models also feature ABS brakes, and Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD), as well as rear park distance control sensors, a reverse camera with dynamic guidelines and integrated into the vehicle’s touchscreen infotainment system among others.  Pricing starts at R380 995 and include KIA’s industry-leading Unlimited Kilometre, 5-year warranty (inclusive of roadside assistance), and also include a 5-year/90,000km Service Plan. ALSO READ: Spend the morning with an international bird guide