1. During the first lockdown (level 5), Silulumanzi meter reading could not continue as per normal. As it was not clear when the lockdown would end, Silulumanzi in the interim had to estimate meter readings accordingly. Estimations were done/allowed in line with municipal by-laws. 2. Estimations were based on an average of 12 months of actual meter readings. Where no 12-month actual meter readings were available (due to new meter replacement or a recently opened account) then, a default of reading of 40kl was applied. 3. The benefit for consumers was that estimations made provisions for them to make payments in the interim. When actual readings are taken, they will not be left with exorbitant bills and the estimated reading/bill will automatically self-correct itself, leaving the customer with an accurate meter readings/bill. 4. If you are struggling to pay your bill due to not receiving your usual salary due to Covid-19, please get in contact with Silulumanzi. We can assist with interest free payment arrangements to help you relieve some of the pressure.  We appeal to all our customers to pay their water accounts during the lockdown period, so that we are able to continue rendering our services to ensure you are able to implement the hygiene measures that are essential to combat this pandemic. Billing and payment channels:

1. The monthly statements will be processed as usual and delivered via email and text message.
2. Statements via the post office may be delayed, therefore we request that in the event you do not receive a statement from us to please email or call us to assist you.
3. To benefit from our electronic communication please update your email address and mobile numbers by emailing or calling our call centre to update your details.
4. You may also contact us for your enquiries, invoices, service interruption reports or any other water service matters.  The answer is yes. You can continue to use, and drink, tap water as, according to the World Health Organisation, the Covid-19 virus has not been detected in water.
Silulumanzi will continue to deliver sustainable and safe drinking water at all times.  Customers are encouraged to kindly make their payments electronically (EFT.) For easy reference here are our banking details: Bank: Absa
Account name: Silulumanzi
Branch: Nelspruit
Account no: 4053446784
Branch code: 63-20-05    