 KABOKWENI – It is difficult for the elderly to comply to social distancing rules and regulations as they are often in constricted places like the post office or a shopping complex. Sipho Zitha, a community member, was concerned that the elderly were prone to contracting Covid-19 coronavirus. “I observed Sasa pay points amid the pandemic and I was not pleased with what I saw. Social distance rules and regulations were not taken seriously, so I decided to something about it.”  Zitha called upon pastors, NGOs and young people who cannot go to school due to the lockdown, to form a team to help enhance compliance with social distancing among the elderly. The group call themselves the Covid-19 Community Compliance Support Initiative (Covid-19 CCSI). It works together with the MEC of social development, Thandi Shongwe, shopping complex managements in KaBokweni, Lekazi, Dayizenza and Emoyeni and various post offices. The group gathered at the KaBokweni Shopping Complex, managed by Norman Nyakane. The Covid-19 CCSI helped the elderly to practice social distancing as they waited in line.
“Mr James ‘JV’ Mdluli donated chairs that the elders sat on, as the shopping complex did not have the resources to do so.  “It was hard for the elderly to comply to social distancing rules and regulations as they thought we did not want them to get their money fast,” Zitha complained.  “Nyakane helped us with everything that we needed and I will forever be grateful for that,” Zitha said.
The Covid-19 CCSI then went to KaBokweni Post Office to monitor social distancing regulations.
“What I saw at the KaBokweni Post Office was beyond horrible,” Zitha said. “It is in no shape or form to host the elderly people, there is just confusion altogether. The Post Office is situated in such a way that it is difficult for the elderly to stand in a straight line and they get burnt by the sun. We impoverished and get a stretch tent for them to sit in, we made sure that they practiced social distancing too. I am happy that I started this initiative to help the elderly as they are the most vulnerable people of society.”