 Purchase life insurance when you are young and healthy Craig Baker, CEO of MiWayLife, comments “here is one thing that you need to know; the older you get the more susceptible you are to contracting illnesses and injuries that can compromise your life. Life insurers use the underwriting process to make the process fair. It will also determine what premiums you will end up paying. The older you are the higher the premiums get.” Life insurance that comes with benefits What makes a policy is the benefits that come with it. The devil is in the detail, which means you will have to carefully read or ask about the benefits that come with your cover. Having a life insurance that comes with a built in funeral benefit, covers you for terminal illnesses, and allows you to include other family members under one premium is crucial. Extended family member cover “South African families are diverse and at times large. Many of us have funeral policies in place, but what if you could get a 2 in 1 policy that allows you to get life insurance, and also being able to cover up to eight family members under the built in funeral benefit? At MiWayLife, we cover you for up to eight family members to give you peace of mind,” adds Baker. Premiums Life insurance is a two-way street; you will have to pay your premiums to keep it active and your insurer must keep their word by paying out the sum insured amount to your beneficiaries. What you need to consider is if you will be able to keep up with the premiums that will increase by a certain percentage each year? Your insurer will inform you on what percentage your premiums will increase by which needs to be factored into your budget so that you won’t default on your payments. Change your lifestyle One of the factors that influences the premiums that you end up paying is your lifestyle. The healthier you are the lower your premiums become. There are some insurers who are willing to cut back on the premiums you pay if you change your lifestyle habits such as quitting smoking, excessive drinking, sticking to your doctors prescribed medication, or losing weight. You can always ask your insurer to review your premiums once you have made these changes. Review your policy A lot can happen in a year, which also makes it important to review your policy every year. Maybe a listed beneficiary has passed on or you have had a baby and you would like to list them as a beneficiary. Whatever the reason may be, always remember to check if your policy is up to date and that it covers those who matter to you. Seek financial advice Your financial situation differs from the next person, so why settle for something that is the same as the next persons? There are free financial services that you can make use of that will be able to advise you on what life insurance will be suitable to your finances without straining you. Be careful who you take out a cover with Remember to always choose a reputable financial or life insurance company that will take good care of something as important as life insurance. It is crucial to do research before you sign anything to protect you and your hard-earned money.