 It will not hurt your ears and does not use a drop of fuel, but it is projected to crush the quarter-mile in the low eight-second range at more than 275km/h. The battery-powered Mustang Cobra Jet 1400 prototype is purpose-built and projected to deliver over 1 400 horsepower and over 1 100ft-lbs (1 045kW and 1 490Nm) of instant torque to demonstrate the capabilities of an electric powertrain in one of the most demanding race environments. READ: Safer tyres protect lives “Ford has always used motorsport to demonstrate innovation,” said Dave Pericak, global director of Ford Icons.
“Electric powertrains give us a completely new kind of performance and the all-electric Cobra Jet 1400 is one example of pushing new technology to the absolute limit. We’re excited to showcase what’s possible in an exciting year when we also have the all-electric Mustang Mach-E joining the Mustang family.”  Following the debut of the all-electric Ford Mustang Mach-E SUV, the first-ever all-electric Mustang, the Mustang Cobra Jet 1400 prototype represents another opportunity to advance Mustang heritage and performance while simultaneously incorporating some of the most advanced technology coming to Ford’s future powertrains.  The Mustang Cobra Jet 1400 also honours the original Cobra Jet that first dominated drag strips in the late 1960s and still is a major force in sportsman drag racing today. “This project was a challenge for all of us at Ford Performance, but a challenge we loved jumping into,” said Mark Rushbrook, global director of Ford Performance Motorsports. ALSO READ: Second-hand tyres aren’t always safe “We saw the Cobra Jet 1400 project as an opportunity to start developing electric powertrains in a race car package that we already had a lot of experience with, so we had performance benchmarks we wanted to match and beat right now. This has been a fantastic project to work on, and we hope the first of many coming from our team at Ford Performance Motorsports.”    Ford Performance continues to test the Cobra Jet 1400 ahead of its world debut later this year at a drag racing event where fans, media and competitors alike will get to meet the race car, as well as see exactly what it is capable of on the asphalt.