 The Minister of Employment and Labour, Thulas Nxesi, on Sunday released a statement to ensure that more vulnerable workers benefit from the Covid-19 TERS scheme, as a number of domestic workers have already been paid directly. On Saturday, May 16, UIF figures showed that 14 113 domestic workers had thus far benefitted from the relief fund benefit, to the tune of R55 572 870, after 10 092 employers logged claims on behalf of their domestic workers. “While we are happy that our efforts are beginning to bear fruit, we are worried that this still represents a drop in the ocean in terms of domestic workers on our systems, of which the number is close to a million.” It is necessary for more employers of domestic workers to apply on their behalf so that workers can directly benefit from the scheme, he added. Interfile, a private company, has agreed to join forces with the department to help locate domestic workers through their cell phone numbers to ensure they receive their benefit, he confirmed. The department is currently also going through its database to reach out to farm workers, who also fall in the category of most vulnerable groups. “I have instructed the department to do everything possible to track and trace workers in these groups to ensure that as far as we can help it, no worker is left behind from the social net we are providing,” the minister said. To speed up the payment process, workers are being paid directly instead of the payments first made to their employers. The department has urged employers who have the tools at their disposal to claim on behalf of their workers. Payments over the weekend have brought the total amount the department has distributed since April 16, 2020 to R13,3 billion which has been placed in the hands of close to 2,5 million workers. “Behind these figures are real human beings who are being enabled to withstand the worst of the pandemic’s economic meltdown. While we are thrilled that we are able to make this difference, it would really be a slap in the face if employers of domestic and farm workers do not take advantage of the scheme to make sure that the claims are lodged on time,” Nxesi said. A total of over R2 billion that could possibly benefit 535　587 workers, remain unpaid, as the UIF awaits further particulars from 74　401 employers.  A total of 26 793 workers have not been paid as the supplied details have failed bank verification. “I appeal to these 2 319 employers to ensure that the bank details are correct so that the department can swiftly make payments to deserving beneficiaries. Naturally, we expect that these would be the same accounts that are used to process salaries and wages,” the minister concluded. For more information on the payment of benefits, log onto the website: www.uifecc.labour.gov.za/covid19 or reach the UIF, or on the toll-free number at 0800 030 007. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).