 The Standard Bank Innibos Arts Festival, that was supposed to be held in June in Mbombela, has been postponed as a result of the Covid-19 coronavirus. According to a media statement released by the festival organisers, Innibos is set for early December 2020. However, should large public gatherings still be banned by December, the festival might be cancelled. Andy Lubbe, director of Innibos, said the uncertainty regarding public functions made this decision necessary. See photos of Innibos 2019 below: “We want to act in a proactive way and do everything possible to ensure that Innibos can continue, even if it has to be shortened by a day or two. Arts festivals are not only the bread and butter of artists, but also of several related industries, as well as having a huge economic benefit to the local community.” See photos of Innibos 2019 below: ALSO SEE: GALLERY: Mbombela runners, cyclists and dog walkers enjoy their exercise According to the statement, in the past few years the contribution of Innibos to the local economy was on average R85 million. The festival annually creates a great number of part-time jobs and numerous small enterprises are dependent on the festival for a major part of their annual income. See photos of Innibos 2019 below: Lubbe said the new date for the festival is December 10 to 13, should the schools close on December 9. The pandemic is no reason to lose hope, Lubbe concluded. “We see this as an opportunity and challenge to come up with creative solutions to ensure the best possible festival in this extraordinary time.” More information about the programme will be released soon. Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader,
As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19.
Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).