 MBOMBELA -In the almost two-minute clip, the person recording can be heard saying, “Food parcels are being delivered to Vusi Mkhatshwa, and it is very clear. There’s a truck, there are Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) people. These people are out of order. They are taking food that is meant for the people for themselves and their comrades. “I’m here live at Extension 9 Barberton Ward 44. There is a truck offloading food that is meant for the poor and it is not his (Mkhatshwa) people. It is EPWP people and it is clear. At Vusi Mkhatshwa’s home, deputy speaker of the province. I hope Mhlonishwane Sedibe will deal with this decisively.” In a conversation with Lowvelder, Mkhatshwa denied the allegations, saying that no state resources were used and that the parcels were donated by businesses. “The donations were made by business people and did not originate from the Department of Social Development (DSD), as is alleged in the video. There were no EPWP workers offloading the trucks either,” he said. Mkhatshwa said that there were no secure storage facilities in Emjindi. “The food parcels would have been stored at the ANC’s parliamentary constituency offices, but these were burned down during the service delivery protests earlier this year. ALSO READ: The birth of Alfa Romeo “My home is secure and was used to store the consignment of food parcels. I was not even there at the time, but my personal assistant facilitated the delivery,” said Mkhatshwa. The EFF’s Collen Sedibe denounced Mkhatshwa’s actions. “I am aware that the incident is currently under investigation by the Hawks, but I believe that, as a public representative, he (Mkhatshwa) should have considered alternative storage spaces. “As the EFF, we believe that donations such as these should be submitted to the DSD, because they have a database of people in need of food.” Sedibe continued to say that the donation would not reach those in need, but would be donated to ANC-aligned residents. “Those perceived to be supporting other parties do not benefit from these parcels. This appears to be a campaign tool.” Sedibe added that the DSD does not have enough resources. This led to the establishment of the Solidarity Fund, to which councillors are donating 33 per cent of their salaries. “It is not the time to segregate along party lines. We need to work as a collective for the benefit of everyone as we take on the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Sedibe concluded. The Hawks spokesperson, Capt Dineo Sekgotodi, has confirmed that the matter is being investigated and said that the findings of the investigation would be made public once the investigation is concluded. ALSO READ: Comrades cancelled for the first and only time since World War 2