 Thea Rix, administrator of the Mbombela Electricity & Water Information Facebook group, said she has been inundated with complaints about high electricity bills. The number of complaints has skyrocketed in the past month, she said. Lowvelder has also received many emails from readers desperate for help. Dorothy McDonald, a 77-year-old widow who stays in Steiltes, said her latest electricity bill was R1 688,79, up from R928,76 the previous month. “I lost my husband 18 months ago and have since been living alone. How can a person living alone use this amount of electricity? I use cold water to do my weekly laundry and I do not use the geyser except for the washing of dishes and a daily bath. My domestic worker, who normally works for me twice a week, has not been at work since the lockdown started almost eight weeks ago,” she said. Lizelle Groenewald said her electricity bill for March was R3 081, up from R2 920 in February. In April the amount increased even further to R4 398. “This is impossible. It is not even winter yet,” she said. ALSO READ: SASSA payments to be paid on June 3rd, 4th and 5th as vetting continues for social relief grant Kanébo van der Vyver of Magisha Guest House said the establishment has been closed since the lockdown started. “We have no guests and I am in KwaZulu-Natal. There are four adults and two babies staying at the guest house during the lockdown. This month our electricity bill was R6 000, which is higher than when we have a house full of people with air conditioners and geysers being used. They are stealing from us,” she said. Another Mbombela resident, Johann van Zyl, said he is tired of being exploited. “I live off a small annuity and two houses that I rent out. Where I normally paid about R6 000 per month, my latest bill is R10 700. This is theft. My tenants cannot afford to pay these enormous amounts and then I have to make a plan. I am going to use the last of my savings to get off the grid,” he said. Joseph Ngala, spokesperson for the Mbombela municipality, said they have received some queries from customers about electricity bills that they claim are too high. “People must remember that with the winter months approaching, electricity consumption will rise and this year it will be exacerbated by the fact that people are at home during lockdown,” he said. “We are fully aware of the hardships everyone has to endure due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, but we cannot have a blanket approach. Each case will have to be treated on merit. “The sad reality is that the City is expected to continue delivering services that also come at a cost, and that is why we also expect our customers to continue paying for such services. Of course, those that have challenges will enter into payment arrangements, but we cannot commit to payment holidays. The very services we are providing are at risk if we do that,” he said. ALSO READ: Sassa brings relief for families in distress during Covid-19 lockdown According to Linda Grimbeek, chief operating officer of Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism, she is especially concerned about businesses and the challenges that they are facing. “Municipalities have received additional funding, and we expect of them to use that money to grant payment holidays for businesses. If businesses do not have money, they will lay off people and they will not open their doors. Municipalities will lose the outstanding money and they will permanently lose a ratepayer. “Employees who have been retrenched will also not be able to pay their municipal accounts. The local authority should consider the real implications of a tsunami of non-payment. Why do you think the banks and most landlords give payment holidays? It is to secure future payment. A dead business does not pay,” she said. Ngala said the only amount the Mbombela municipality has received so far is R1,073 million, which is part of a disaster-relief fund run by the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta). “I am not sure if we will receive more support, as nothing has been promised. We heard of money being set aside to assist municipalities, but nothing official has been received. We definitely need more assistance. The pandemic has only made our cash-flow situation worse. Municipalities across the country have been dealt a big blow by the pandemic,” he said. ALSO READ: Passion and hard work lead to academic honours for young scientist The cash-flow challenges the Mbombela municipality are experiencing was confirmed by the DA that said in a statement that Mpumalanga’s 21 municipalities are billed an alarming R1 billion of interest on their Eskom debt every year. This information was revealed in reports from the portfolio committees on human settlements and Cogta. According to a release issued by National Treasury, the national government has made available more than R5 billion to assist municipalities in the 2019/20 financial year. This support is assisting municipalities to provide additional access to basic services during the lockdown and to sanitise public-transport facilities as the economy undergoes a phased reopening. Lowvelder reached out to the community to find out if they had any problems with high water or electricity bills during the past months. Here is what they said: Mari Jaquire: “Belaglik! Myne het ook met R2 000 in die laaste twee maande gespring en ons is net twee mense.” Morney Viljoen: “Ons s’n is R1 458 meer as laas maand. Dis belaglik.” Rika Fermor: “My rekening is ook so R2 000 meer as gewoontlik.” Roelf van Jaarsveld: “Ek neuk net voort en betaal maar. Eet eerder pap en Vim voor my vrou en kleinkinders moet swaarkry.” Tella Els: “Krag en water… Maak ons mense nou dood. Dit is nie nou die tyd vir foute nie. Betaal nou wat ons dink dit moet wees. Maar dan kom staan meneer en sny ons krag. Nee genade, ons Suid-Afrikaners moet nou sterk- en saamstaan.” Amber-Louise du Preez: “Ja nee, ons krag die maand is meer as dubbel.” Leandre Euvrard Coetzer: “Ons krag is op met R2 000. Geen air con, geen swembadpompe of enige iets nie. Het ‘n foto van die meter gestuur na die Mbombela-kantoor toe. Hulle het hom darem verminder met R900. Maar nou sit jy met ‘n probleem – betaal jy nie, kom sit hulle jou krag af. Nee mense, dié is ook nie regverdig nie. As jy bedrae skat, dink ten minste logies.” ALSO READ: Continued tobacco ban may cost South Africa billions, says TJSA founder