 Also, it is probably going to get a lot worse than it already is. SPAR has always reached out to the communities it serves and now – during the Covid-19 pandemic, we continue to do so,” said award-winning master butcher at The Grove SUPERSPAR, Rudy Oosthuyse. “We are fortunate that our suppliers needed no invitation to join hands with us. This has, since the beginning of the lockdown, enabled us to donate more than 800 kilograms of meat to communities in need. We neatly vacuum-pack the meat as mince in quantities of 500 grams. ALSO READ: Driekoppies Clinic in Nkomazi in Mpumalanga temporarily closed due to Covid-19 This both makes cooking easier and presents more cooking options.” Meat donations come from Grant Venter from Kameeldrift, Alwyn Viljoen from Matumani Chicken and also Manie Engelbrecht from Bergendal Abattoir. SPAR has also donated money towards this project. Rudy Oosthuyse (Grove SuperSPAR Butchery Manager), Amanda Joubert and Pastor Jacques Goosen (Pneuma Ministries) The distribution is done by Amanda Joubert and Pr Jacques Goosen of Pneuma Ministries. “The need is growing, but current beneficiaries, about 100 individual families, and excluding various old age homes, informal settlements Katoen and The Ranch, would not survive without this support,” said Oosthuyse. “What you sow, you will reap, and if you have been blessed with enough and are able to share, please join these efforts. With winter on the way, these families also need warm clothing, so please get in touch and donate. If you cannot contribute food or clothing, fill the gaps by rendering emotional support for someone in need. We need to restore people’s dignity.” “SPAR offers daily specials to assist everyone to optimise their budgets, and by supporting us, you enable us to support our communities and honour our God-given responsibilities. I implore people to not exploit this pandemic as a scheme to enrich themselves; this is not the time,” concluded Oosthuyse. ALSO READ: Barberton Mines makes sizeable food parcel donation to Emjindini and Matsulu communities