 For many vulnerable families, the options are death by hunger or death by Covid-19. Penreach, a social impact organisation, is making use of its extensive network and partners and are distributing food to vulnerable children and their families as a response to the current food security crisis.  Recently, a food drop in Mataffin served three early childhood development centres as well as primary schools with vulnerable children and their families.  “We find our most vulnerable beneficiaries locked down in rural settlements in Mpumalanga, unable to meet the basic need of at least one meal a day. Feeding schemes that they rely on are locked. Formal and informal means of earning an income have dried up. The situation is fast deteriorating from dire to catastrophic. Incidents of looting and public violence are increasing,” said the organisation’s Ronel Oosthuizen.  Since April 6, they have distributed 3 868 food parcels that amounts to 1,2 million meals, with the support of the following partners and funding partners: The Roger Federer Foundation (RFF) The RFF has now made funds available to Penreach as a response to the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure beneficiaries are able to receive food. The Eric and Charmaine Mabuza Foundation The Eric and Charmaine Mabuza Foundation has made a generous donation towards the Penreach Food Relief initiative helping it to reach its target. JAM Joint Aid Management (JAM) has made porridge available to Penreach for distribution.
JAM is a humanitarian relief and development organisation in Africa founded in 1984 by Peter and Ann Pretorius.  HL Hall & Sons Halls is actively involved in uplifting its community. Halls supports Penreach through its early childhood development centres and currently supplies fresh fruit and vegetables to Penreach to supplement the food packs being delivered. Pediatric Care Africa
Pediatric Care has been instrumental to activate the food relief efforts of Penreach. The organisations have been assisting one another in delivering food to communities.  “There is no such thing as a small act of kindness. Every act creates a ripple with no logical end. Each and every single donation, no matter how small, helps make a difference to the lives of those living below the breadline, those that struggle for even the most basic of needs,” Oosthuizen said. Also read: Honouring our local heroes