 MALALANE – According to the NLM Facebook page, on April 29 two cases were confirmed in Boschfontein. One case was confirmed in Middelplaas and another in KaMhlushwa on May 2, and on Sunday May 3 five cases in various villages were confirmed. Cyril Rapinga, spokesperson for NLM, also confirmed two new positive cases on Tuesday May 5, but could not yet confirm the areas. These two cases are not counted among the 11 cases and have not been confirmed by the national Department of Health. Rapinga had the following to say about the sudden spike in confirmed cases: “The municipality is concerned about the ever-increasing number of cases of Covid-19 in Nkomazi. Sadly, our community does not adhere to the lockdown regulations. Shopping malls are packed to the rafters and non-essential outlets are also operating since the announcement of level four. We have engaged law enforcement agencies to intervene urgently by increasing their personnel. We do not want to witness mass funerals in Nkomazi, but we are surely heading there if there is not a change of behaviour from the community.” Provincial police spokesperson Brig Leonard Hlathi also commented on the situation. “We implore the community to comply with the level four lockdown regulations that have been put into place. Stay at home if you are not an essential service provider.” According to the statistics released by the Mpumalanga Department of Health, Nkomazi Local Municipality has a total of 19 cases and six recoveries. South Africa has a total of 7 220 confirmed Covid-19 cases according to an announcement by minister of health, Dr Zweli Mkhize, on Monday May 4. ALSO READ: New Africa developments provide free bread for elderly and frail A total of 53 of those cases have been recorded in Mpumalanga. According to data released by the Mpumalanga Department of Health, 22 recoveries have been recorded to date. There have been no deaths recorded in Mpumalanga. 5 recoveries  and 1 recovery ALSO READ: Agriculture MEC, Vusi Shongwe, donates PPE to the province’s agricultural sector