They have started selling trees to the general market, and their harvest for the year is exceeding Sound Kernel Recovery (SKR) rates of over 40 per cent. The nursery is situated in Levubu, Limpopo, and is specialised in producing macadamia trees as well as one of the best-performing macadamia farms in the area. It was originally founded to provide high quality trees for the developments of WelMac in South Africa as well as overseas. When you purchase a tree from Albasini Nursery it is not just a simple business transaction. They have experts in the field producing high quality macadamias in their own orchard, giving them the practical knowledge to help their customers with practical choices.  “We can provide our customers with guidance and advice on selection of cultivar depending on your specific circumstances, planting protocol and planning as well as management assistance after planting up until your first harvest. This way we can ensure that the trees you buy from Albasini, under the same conditions and if managed properly and according to our guidelines, will produce like the trees in our own orchards. These have reached over 6 tons per hectare on certain blocks and our crack-outs have exceeded 40 per cent every year,” said Herman Claassens, managing director at the nursery.  “Albasini Nursery has a unique position, located on one of the best producing macadamia farms of the area. The trees produced in the nursery are grafted from hand-selected, high yielding trees in our own orchard. For years we have been keeping track of trees that produce above-average yields and high crack-outs every year, which we use as mother material for our propagation. This way we can ensure that the trees we deliver are of high quality, disease-free and will produce high yields if tended well. From this expertise in the field combined with our nursery, we can assist you in all aspects of your new plantings, from selection of cultivar to the management of your trees after planting as well as the planning of your orchard,” said Claassens.  In 2018 the first 4 prizes went to WelMac, with SKR rates at time exceeding 40 percent. Again last year WelMac won the award of excellence for largest volume with outstanding quality.    