 MBOMBELA – In a statement issued by the City of Mbombela’s spokesperson, Joseph Ngala, temporary permits are being issued to businesses affected by level 4 lockdown regulations. This proved to be a welcome turn of events for business owners who had experienced a substantial financial blow after the introduction of the lockdown on March 23. Business owners of all descriptions lined the street leading to the city’s municipal offices on Thursday to submit their applications. Numbering among them was Jim Matsabane, who owns a vegetable stand. He could not conceal his excitement and said, “As business owners, the financial toll the extended lockdown is taking on us is a heavy cross to bear. Jim Matsabene with his temporary business permit. ALSO READ: Stern warning to drug traffickers after two major dagga seizures in Mpumalanga “I am encouraged to see that business owners are, at the very least, adhering to the government regulations and applying for the temporary permits”. The queue wound its way around the street and the prospective applicants donned the now normal masks as they waited to be granted access to the building. Social distancing all but flew out of the window outside, but the queuing hopefuls maintained their prescribed one to two metre distance once they were allowed inside. Max Shabangu waiting his turn in the queue. ALSO READ: Mbombela’s demand for fresh fruit and vegetables surges during Covid-19 lockdown The security guards dispensed the mandatory hand sanitiser before the applicants made their way into the offices to apply for the temporary business permits. The permits were extended to businesses providing winter clothing and essential information technology services in Mbombela, White River, KaNyamazane, Barberton and Hazyview. The queue wound its way around Nel Street. ALSO READ: Agriculture MEC, Vusi Shongwe, donates PPE to the province’s agricultural sector “It should be noted that strict social distancing and wearing of masks will be enforced. Businesses must also note that anyone visiting our service centres will have their body temperature screened and be sanitised. It is also compulsory to fill in a register at the security desk,” said Ngala. He urged all business owners to continue practising the personal hygiene measures stipulated by government. Ngala added, “Remember that with the amendments of the regulations, there are sectors of the economy that get selected and the city must issue operating permits in that regard. With level 4, the sectors as mentioned above are affected and must be issued with temporary permits”.