 BARBERTON –  Barberton prison is no exception and plans are underway to release prisoners in a bid to stop the spread of Covid-19. According to the communications manager for Barberton Correctional Services, Messiah Hlungwani, all the cases will be examined on their own merits before the prisoners are released. “It is important to note that offenders convicted of serious crimes, such as sexual offences, child abuse, gender-based violence, murder and attempted murder, terrorism, lifers, those who previously escaped or attempted to escape are excluded from release on parole,” he said. ALSO READ: Two suspects pay R2000 fine after being caught with illicit cigarettes Hlungwani said that the qualifying categories of prisoners eligible for early parole include • Inmates who have reached the minimum detention period within five years
• Inmates with underlying health issues
• Elderly inmates (above 60 years of age)
• Female inmates with babies. Hlungwani added that all security and health precautions would be taken before the qualifying inmates would be released. He was unable to provide the exact number of prisoners eligible for release. Hlungwani said this number would only be known once the due process has been followed to determine the number of qualifying inmates. Hlungwani could also not confirm the release date and said, “Head office is working around the clock in developing guidelines which will explain to all prisons on how the release should be executed. Therefore, the date will be determined by the directive provided by the national office.” He did confirm, however, that a Covid-19 hospital is being constructed so cases of the virus can be treated. “Barberton Correctional Services has identified Medium A Correctional Centre in Barberton to be used as a hospital for Covid-19. “The centre is currently used as a release centre, which accommodates 100 inmates. The process of converting the centre into a hospital has started and the project will end on May 31,” said Hlungwani. ALSO READ: Spar donates food for flights