 MARLOTH PARK – Some lions and cubs have also been spotted on the banks of the Crocodile River that forms a natural border between the town and the KNP.Gerrie Camacho, an expert on carnivores of the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency, added his concern, and on May 19 sent out a warning to everyone to limit their time spent outside. The lioness and her cubs have been evading game rangers and security companies the past few days. Captured by camera traps in Marloth Camacho said carnivores like hyenas and leopards usually visit Marloth Park, however, they are removed when they start to cause trouble. He said it is easy for the carnivores to enter the park, and they will want to occupy the area as they can sense there are no others of their kind nearby, so this makes it a safe new ground to explore. He went on to say that Marloth Park borders on the KNP and is only separated by two stretches of fence, which makes it easy for animals to crawl through underneath. According to Camacho, the fence is constantly under strain due to animals damaging it, as well as water rising in the summertime. Camacho said it is rather difficult to keep these animals out of Marloth Park, and that it is a push-and-pull situation, explaining they are pulled by the new, unoccupied area and pushed by the other carnivores in the KNP.  According to Camacho, the procedure when carnivores are spotted in Marloth Park is as follows: MTPA’s capture team tries to capture the animal once they are in a convenient spot, which is not always the case as the foliage in Marloth Park is rather dense. After the animal has been captured, it is removed and safely relocated to the KNP. Camacho said the answer as to why the lioness and her cubs cannot be left in Marloth Park is simple; the lioness can easily turn on humans and will be very protective over her cubs. It is crucial for MTPA to remove the cat as soon as possible, due to the fact that the cat is already wandering deeper into Marloth Park each day, which means she plans to settle there. Camacho warned that people should not be walking around in Marloth Park, especially late afternoons and early mornings. He said to stay clear of dense bush and not to jog or cycle, as any of these activities can trigger the lioness to start hunting. According to Camacho, a resident from Marloth Park tried feeding a zebra in her back yard yesterday and was shocked to see the lioness right in front of her, stalking the zebras. Camacho added that the danger is there and very real. “If people come into contact with them, they should not run; turn your back on them, be as loud as possible and wave your arms in the air, should the lioness charge or do a mock charge,” he said. Camacho said that the lioness seems to favour one area in particular; east of the shopping centres and towards gate two of the KNP. Gerrie Comacho concluded by stressing the importance for people to take caution in assuring to state that the situation is sensitive and people should act in support and respect these animals in order to assure that they could be removed safely and without any harm done. MTPA will do their best to see that the lions can be removed in a professional operation but needs the different entities and homeowners support in reporting immediately when they are sighted and also to respect the movement on foot in the dangerous areas pointed out by the different security alerts. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).