 South Africa’s extended lockdown has raised numerous concerns around the country’s readiness to accept children at schools. It is not clear when schools will re-open and learners’ schooling has been interrupted. For parents who are back at work following the easing of restrictions, this poses serious problems as they are unable to monitor their children’s progress. A number of teachers are enlisting the aid of social media, particularly WhatsApp, and schooling is continuing for those with access to smartphones. Education experts agree that worrying about their children’s progress and the external factors brought about by the lockdown, is exacting an emotional toll on parents during this time.  ALSO READ: Spotting in KNP continues despite Covid-19 lockdown John Luis, head of academics at AdvTECH Schools, said, “The current situation facing those parents who are trying to do their best on the work front to ensure the sustainability of their companies and their livelihoods, while having to oversee their children’s schoolwork is without a doubt extremely stressful, and it is important to take a step back and gain perspective at this time.” “It is no easy task to keep children productive and learning at home, while also trying to get your own work done under trying circumstances. But we urge those parents who are ready to throw in the towel, and who quite simply have had enough, to aim to regain a sense of equilibrium and a positive environment even if it seems impossible right now.”  ALSO READ: Department of Health: First positive Covid-19 case in Lydenburg According to Luis, ADvTECH, in its preparation ahead of lockdown, introduced Pastoral Care Teams at all their schools . “From the start, we were ready and committed to continuing our teaching and learning through our online and distance offering, and recognised that parents and family members would need to support, guide and monitor the learning taking place at home. “Addressing the continuation of the curriculum was only one part of the story. We realised very early that this was going to be an unsettling and uncertain time for everyone concerned, and that we also had to support our parents and learners in the challenges and demands that would accompany this time in addition to the learning aspects,” said Luis.  ALSO READ: Feeding the need in White River – big hearts in a small town He said  despite the fact that public and private schools are all planning and preparing for the return to physical sites, the approach will be phased, which means that many learners outside of the designated first returning grades will still be learning from home for several weeks or even months. It is important that parents aim to re-establish a productive yet calm environment even in the face of the challenges of this time. “One way in which this can be achieved, is by creating a schedule which allows for both family connection and deep focus time. We as parents must set the example by demonstrating that while things are different, we can build our resilience muscles.  ALSO READ: Mbombela’s demand for fresh fruit and vegetables surges during Covid-19 lockdown “In the mornings, before children start their work and parents dive into their to-do lists, make the time to connect – read your children a book, get some fresh air, and just be. When the work starts, be realistic. Don’t try to make your average 9-to-5 happen. “Structure the day to allow for work-immersion slots, and during this time don’t feel guilty for not engaging directly with your children. Too much screen time is still not advisable, but if it allows the children to decompress while you can apply intense focus to your own work, it will do more good than harm.” Parents should also dedicate some time to being able to assist their children – and must ensure that they can focus on their child’s needs and learning during this time – without running over their own pending work repeatedly in their minds. Finally, everyone should have some downtime together during the day, potentially around lunchtime, he says. 