 Festivals and other social gatherings of more than 50 people are still not permitted, amid relaxed regulations as the country eases into lockdown level four. The inability to trade means enormous strain and hardship, especially for informal traders who source their income mainly from festivals. Several informal traders have voiced their concerns about the situation, as they continue their struggle to survive financially.  Tough times have befallen Riana Biersteker, an informal stall trader at flea markets and festivals. Not only did her daughter have to sell her car last month to assist the family, but her husband is a pensioner.  Rina said the money he receives goes straight to paying bills despite the fact that he needs a hip replacement.  Without her income from markets and festivals, this is not going to realise, she said. Having booked spots at several markets in advance already, Rina said she waits in vain for refunds as festival organisers simply say the festivals were postponed due to the lockdown, and not cancelled.  Pat Staples, another informal trader at flea markets said some traders’ income was already not enough to make ends meet long before the lockdown started.  “Now the festivals have been postponed and we are requesting funding to be made available to us as we have lost our only source of income.”  Chony Coetzer, who runs her own knives and survival equipment business, said things are becoming more and more challenging. She has been trading at flea markets for the last 22 years, selling Tupperware, costume jewellery and knitted jeans. Nine years ago she started selling knives, and five years ago she added the survival equipment. Chony, who used to pay her grandson’s schools fees, says she has always helped those in need, but now her own business has taken strain: “We really need help”.  Wendy Kilroe-Daley, the owner of Wendy’s Healthy Foods, said she too has struggled to secure an income.  Wendy, a pensioner who lives alone, had a one-woman bakery supplying baked goods for diabetics and various other immune-related conditions. She pleaded for help for her, and her business.  Jan Snyder, an informal trader who sells toffee apples at flea markets and festivals said the informal trade sector is desperately looking for funds. He said his staff got paid for five weeks and with the extended lockdown, now face no source of income for an additional four to eight weeks. He pleaded for a fund to be made available for the informal traders. John Walker from the Donut Deli is 64 years old and has no pension. He had bought a doughnut fryer and started trading at markets and festivals selling doughnuts, waffles, and pancakes. His business started doing so well that he employed two workers to assist him. It has been tough recently, he said, when they turn to him for financial assistance but he is unable to help since he has no income either. He too pleaded for assistance for informal traders. The current trying times are taking a toll on various sectors in the economy, but prospects in the informal market are looking particularly dire.  For some there is relief, while others have to make do with what they have. With no flea markets and festivals for the foreseeable future, these informal traders are left with no source of income. *Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader,
As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19.
Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).