 Although international travel has been banned since South Africa was placed under lockdown on March 25, Department of Home Affairs Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has recently issued updated directions that allow for exceptions. Caxton Local Media unpacks it.  Patients: In terms of the most recent amendments, entry into the country for emergency medical attention may be allowed if the patient suffers from a life-threatening condition. Anyone who wants to cross South African borders for this reason, must apply to an immigration officer at any port of entry. A comprehensive list of all South Africa’s ports of entry and contact details appears at the bottom of this article. The application must be supported by: –          Documentary proof of the applicant’s life-threatening condition –          A copy of the applicant’s valid passport. The immigration officer will inform the Minister of Home Affairs of the application. The intended travel may only be embarked on once the minister’s approval has been obtained. In the event that a patient with a life-threatening condition requires assistance with physical movement or care, the provider of such assistance must be screened and may be subjected to mandatory quarantine.  Repatriation to South Africa: South Africans who want to enter the country must apply 72 hours in advance. They must apply to the South African mission in the country where they find themselves. Where there is no South African mission, applicants must approach the Consular Services at the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO).  The entity that receives the application must notify the Minister of Home Affairs, who may pre-approve the said entry. Applicants must submit the following documentation: –          A copy of the applicant’s passport, identity card or identifying document –          A copy of the applicant’s permanent residence permit, if applicable –          Details regarding the applicant’s travel itinerary in the last two months. South Africans who have received permission and entered the country will be quarantined. Repatriation from South Africa into other countries: South Africans and foreigners who wish to exit South Africa have to apply for permission to do so. The application is submitted to the relevant diplomatic or consular mission in South Africa, 72 hours prior to departure. Applicants must submit the following documentation: –          A copy of the applicant’s passport –          A copy of the applicant’s temporary residence visa or permanent residence permit –          Proof of the applicant’s means of travel. The diplomatic or consular mission must notify the Minister of Home Affairs or a person designated by him in writing, of the application, whereafter approval may be given. Officials of international organisations: Subject to regulations issued by the Department of Health, diplomats and officials of international organisations accredited in South Africa* will be allowed to travel into and out of the country. They will be subjected to physical examinations. Where these persons need visas prior to entering, they may apply for these visas. DIRCO may also issue regulations in this regard. Once you have arrived… Movement between provinces: Those who need to cross provincial boundaries to move homes, must have the following with them: –          A lease agreement or property transfer documents indicating why they have to move –          A police-issued permit.  Click here to get a copy of the relevant permit: Form For Moving Note: You will have to go to the police and request the station commander, or the person duly authorised, to grant the moving permit after you have filled out all requested details.  Image: Malebo Malemone.  *International Organisations: * *Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).