 This will help with those in intensive cares around South Africa in assisting with breathing difficulties caused by the virus. “For more than a half-century, the United States has been the largest contributor to global health security and humanitarian assistance. These ventilators are another example of the American spirit of generosity as we battle this virus at home in the United States and together abroad with our partner countries,” said US ambassador, Lana Marks. Photo credit: US Embassy SA Twitter page The ventilators made in the US have state of the art medical technology and are much needed in South Africa. These new ventilators will provide South Africa with flexibility in treating those patients affected by Covid-19. According to the US Embassy and Consulates in South Africa, the life-saving ventilator units alone are valued at $14 million, with the accompanying equipment, service plans, and shipping, it amounts to over $20 million. Photo credit: US Embassy SA Twitter page South African minister of health, Zweli Mkhize, and minister of trade, industry and competition, Ebrahim Patel, have both noted the urgent need for ventilator capacity and production and this donation responds to that call. The US Embassy is working closely with its South African government counterparts on the deployment of the ventilators, the first shipment of which is imminent. The ventilators will be sent to all intensive care units in hospitals that can accommodate them. U.S. Ambassador to South Africa Lana Marks.Photo credit: US Embassy SA The ventilator donation is in addition to previously announced support to South Africa from the US. Previously the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) committed US$13,2 million in funding, along with US$8,4 million in assistance through USAID. The US Department of Defense has also provided the first in a series of donations of personal protective equipment. All together, this brings the total US government financial commitment to South Africa’s Covid-19 response to over US$41,6 million (R767 million). Photo credit: US Embassy SA Twitter page Additionally, through the US President’s Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), the United States is supporting up to 5 400 community healthcare workers to assist with the South African government’s community Covid-19 screening campaign and provide HIV treatment support on the front lines. According to the US Embassy and Consulates in South Africa, the first shipment of these ventilators landed in South Africa late on the evening of May 12. Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).