 MBOMBELA – The advent of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions on travel mean that employees are becoming more reliant on working remotely. This has presented hackers with much room to manoeuvre as they trawl cyberspace with the aim of securing unsuspecting users’ passwords. Now, more than ever, preserving password integrity has become very important, especially for telecommuters who access sensitive information while working from home. World Password Day is celebrated on May 7 and KnowBe4 is using the opportunity to provide tip sheets, videos and tools to help people strengthen their passwords.  ALSO READ: White River Flying Squad officer nabbed with alcohol on R40 “The recent headlines about 500 000 Zoom passwords being up for sale confirm how important it is that people change their password habits. Passwords are painful. I get it. But using the same password over and over again puts us at risk. “My advice is using a password manager. This means you only have to remember one very strong password, and the password manager takes care of all the other ones. And wherever possible apply multi-factor authentication. This is combining your password with something that you own, like a One Time Password app on your phone,” said Anna Collard, MD of KnowBe4 Africa.  ALSO READ: Covid-19 virus at top of Google searchers’ minds in SA KnowBe4  has launched a new kit to help people strengthen and improve their password management in recognition of World Password Day. The National Cyber Security Centre in the UK found that the most hacked passwords that were used the most overall were as follows: 123456, 123456789, qwerty, password and 111111. First names, premier league football teams, musicians and fictional characters were also found to be popular password categories that are easily cracked.  ALSO READ: Feeding the need in White River – big hearts in a small town “Contrary to popular belief, bad guys don’t actually need to crack weak passwords, they can just reuse the billions of passwords already available for sale on the dark web. Using a technique called “credential stuffing”; hackers use account details obtained from older data breaches,” Collard said. According to the LastPass Psychology of Passwords Report, 91 per cent of people know password reuse is insecure, yet two-thirds do it anyway. Half of respondents hadn’t changed their passwords in over the past 12 months even after hearing about a breach in the news. “There’s a lot of debate out there about the best password policy and whether or not they should be long, short, how complex, etc.,” said Roger Grimes, data-driven defense evangelist, KnowBe4.  ALSO READ: Urgent call for Public Comments on the Division of Revenue Bill, 2020 “The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has drastically changed its advice recently, stating that long and complex passwords shouldn’t be required and they don’t need to be changed unless they’ve been compromised in some manner. “This has been continuously debated and many security professionals do not agree with this advice. The most important thing to remember is to never reuse the same password for multiple sites. It’s also recommended to use multi-factor authentication whenever possible and a to use a password manager.”  ALSO READ: Kishugu has a fleet-management solution to suit your needs The KnowBe4 World Password Day Kit is available to anyone who is looking to learn more about password best practices and includes: 