 Nature lovers were spoilt for choice, albeit on a digital level, when it came to sightings in the Kruger National Park (KNP) during the Covid-19 lockdown. Thanks to SANParks, nature enthusiasts could better endure the lockdown, as sightings in the park are regularly posted on its social-media platforms. On the morning of Friday April 24, African wild dogs were spotted along the Pretoriuskop road. This endangered species, with its distinctive brown and caramel fur, is a rare sight in the park. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Another great sighting occurred on Saturday April 25 when a photo taken by a ranger of a group of warthogs was shared on Twitter. With their tails up in the air, they surely were enjoying the long weekend. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter The most appreciated sighting, however, came on Sunday April 26: the majestic sight of a pride of lions in the wild. According to SANParks, this is always a privilege to see. The lions were spotted by the Satara webcam. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Monday April 27 delivered the great sighting of a wary dwarf mongoose, all to much delight of thousands of nature lovers who now have to watch nature in all its splendour, on a screen. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter On Saturday May 2, an elephant decided to take the time to enjoy Letaba Rest Camp. This nomadic elephant took advantage of the quiet and decided to explore all the camp has to offer. It visited the self-catering huts and decided to help itself to some breakfast and some water from the swimming pool. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter The KNP treated nature lovers once more on Sunday May 3 when lions were spotted on Skukuza golf course, taking advantage of the new exercise regulations put in place during lockdown level 4. Photo credit: Kruger National Park Twitter The current unprecedented times make the sight of wild animals in all their splendour even more valuable and appreciated, as we wait our turn to have another long drive in the KNP.