 Congratulations to our winners and finalists, and thank you for your donations to Pro-Life Pet Rescue First Place – Madélynn Janse van Rensburg and Vlooi “I did not find her, she came looking for me,” said Madélynn on her Facebook entry post. Congratulations Mommy and Vlooi who win the first-place hamper sponsored by Pro Life.  Second place – Chris Naude and Milo “The two bearded buddies”, said Chris’ wife Carmen on the Facebook entry post. Congratulations Chris and Milo who win a second-place hamper sponsored by Pro Life.  Third place – Elize Stoltz and Ceaser This lovely duo win doggie treats sponsored by Pro Life.  Fourth Place – Elché and Gizmo Thaver They get to enjoy dog food and a toy sponsored by BUCO Nelspruit.  Fifth place – Kayla Nel and Chifoumi Chifoumi holds a special place in Kayla’s heart, as this Yorkie with only three legs gives her a lot of love.
They get to enjoy dog food and a toy sponsored by BUCO Nelspruit.   During lockdown stage 5 and stage 4 our furry friends at Pro-Life Pet Rescue are being taken care of by a number of staff living on site. Access to the facility has been prohibited since end of March and only emergency veterinary care is allowed.  No adoptions or public visits have been possible since the start of the lockdown period and the main source of revenue for staff and other day-to-day costs have been severed. Most of us have saved on travel costs over the past few weeks so please donate towards Pro Life’s operational costs during Covid-19 lockdown period. 1.  You can donate food (dog or cat food), kitty litter or cleaning products (Handy Andy, dishwashing liquid, washing powder, bleach).
Van Wijk Street Vets, Petworx I’Langa Mall and Midfeeds in Riverside industrial are the collection points and facilitate as drop off services during the lockdown for the shelter. 2. You can also assist financially with an electronic transfer (EFT). Account info
Pro-Life Pet Rescue
Standard Bank Nelspruit
Account #03 02 609 65
Branch Code: 052852
Reference: Petlookalike 