 Employers and bargaining councils can apply for the benefit. Affected employees may apply themselves if and when their employer or bargaining have not applied on their behalf. Click here to visit the UIF online portal  You will now be on the home page, where you will see a register and login button.  Click on the register button. Complete all the fields on the screen below.  After all fields have been completed, press proceed to create a profile.  After you have pressed proceed, you will receive an on-screen message notification that you have successfully registered as a user.  You will be redirected to a login screen where you will have to enter your details. The username will be your UIF reference number and the password will be one you newly created. After entering these details, click the login button to proceed to the registration of the company and employees.  Registration of employer. Fill in UIF number, trade name and contact number on the screen. After you have completed all open sections, you must press the proceed button.  The memorandum of agreement between (MOA) the fund and the employer. The employer must accept the terms and conditions stipulated in the MOA. Click here to see the (MOA) The employer must accept the terms and conditions stipulated in the MOA by pressing the accept button at the right bottom of the page. The next page will bring a letter of undertaking between the fund and employer. The employer (authorised official in the company) must accept the terms and conditions stipulated on the letter of undertaking.   The employer must confirm banking details and upload the confirmed details in PDF format in the given space. Press proceed to continue.  Adding of employees screen. Select the method of upload employees through CSV files or adding employees one by one. Follow the steps you are given, by either uploading your employees one by one or via a CSV file.  *Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader,
As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19.
Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).