 MBOMBELA – The suspect accused of shooting and killing 39-year-old Tebogo Mabunda before turning the gun on himself, appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court this afternoon. Vuyo Ulirch Mabunda (41), a security supervisor at Transnet and former police officer stationed in Gauteng, is facing charges of murder after he allegedly shot and killed Tebogo, a quantity surveyor of the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport, in an alleged domestic dispute in Stonehenge earlier this month.  Also read: Domestic dispute ends in wife’s death Vuyo appeared for a formal bail application which was opposed by the State on the basis of his own safety and that of possible witnesses and of his three children aged seven, nine and 14 – the latter being his stepson.
He apparently came home from work just after 17:00 on May 14 and asked to speak to his wife. They stepped outside for a brief discussion, after which Vuyo went back into the house. When he came out again, he allegedly shot Tebogo nine times and wounded himself in the arm and abdomen. Divergent Ops was the first to arrive at the scene, followed by the police and medical personnel. She was declared dead on the scene. The suspect was rushed to hospital where he was under police guard but was discharged this morning, able to attend the proceedings seated due to the extent of his injuries. The bail hearing will continue on Tuesday June 2 in the same court. Hendrick Matsane, a spokesperson for the family and uncle of the deceased, previously told Lowvelder the children are having a very hard time coping with what they all agree is a tragedy. “We have enlisted the help of a psychologist to help them come to terms with what has happened to the family,” he said. Also read: Friends line up to honour Mbombela woman killed in domestic dispute Gillion Mashego, MEC for public works, roads and transport in Mpumalanga, has expressed shock over the incident.
“Not long ago, our government embarked on a drive to dismantle the chronic disease of gender-based violence in our society where men were urged to lead the charge. It is indeed a tragedy that has reversed our attempts to capacitate our women and youth in the workplace. As a result, the province has lost a valuable asset in our struggle to fast-track service delivery. It is sad that as a province we have also lost one of our front-liners in our combat against Covid-19. Most importantly her family has lost a daughter, a sister, a mother and a provider,” he said.
Mashego has since conveyed his condolences to Tebogo’s family and friends.
Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, provincial commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga, has also strongly condemned the incident. Vuyo will be kept in custody until his next appearance.  