 It is based on the fundamentals of the segment: 3,5-ton towing capacity, versatility, different body shapes, real off-road and overtaking capabilities, with unbeatable robustness and ease of repair. It offers record capacity, advanced modularity, comfort worthy of a saloon car and a strong design, all making it a benchmark proposal in the segment. Robust and reliable In addition to an attractive style, the brand’s specifications imposed a robust design, so that the new Peugeot Landtrek is functional and enduring, while being well suited for outdoor leisure activities. This without compromising on reliability, with two million kilometres of testing on all terrains and in all weather. The size of the cargo box is a central design element of the architecture and makes it possible to load: two Euro-pallets in double-cab versions (1,63m x 1,60m x 0,5m body and 1,22m wheel width) and three Euro-pallets in single-cab versions (2,43m x 1,60m x 0,5m tipper and 1,22m wheel width).  Essential in the pick-up segment, a complete range of customised accessories for the new Peugeot Landtrek will be available through the Peugeot network. Modern and attractive style The exterior design is imposing, with an assertive personality. It incorporates all the brand’s current codes, with a vertical grille featuring the lion in the centre and vertical LED light signatures (depending on the version).
The interior is adapted to the one-ton pickup segment with, in particular, a two-spoke steering wheel echoing that of the Peugeot 3008 and a 10″ HD screen at the top of the dashboard inspired by that of the brand’s flagship vehicle, the Peugeot 508.  Great attention has been paid to the passenger compartment, with many of the features found on the other Peugeot models, to ensure that you can travel in peace and quiet in all driving and loading conditions.
The modularity of the rear bench seat is unique in the one-ton pickup segment, with the possibility of folding the backrest 60/40 or 100%. When folded down, the backrests can support a load of up to 100kg. At the front, there is a choice between two independent seats with central armrest or a three-seater Multiflex bench seat.
The passenger compartment is spacious and roomy, with space for six passengers (depending on the version). Suitable for all uses and all terrains Whatever your use is; city, road, motorway or rough terrain; the new Peugeot Landtrek has a range of engines adapted to your needs. • Diesel: 1,9-litre displacement and 150hp thanks to a variable geometry 16-valve turbocharger. Torque of 350Nm and a six-speed Getrag manual gearbox. It has chain timing to optimise maintenance costs. Roller rocker arms reduce noise, have higher speeds and less friction for less wear. This engine has a combined fuel consumption of 7,8 litres/100 kilometres.
• Petrol: Turbocharged with 2,4-litre displacement and a comfortable power output of 210hp and 320Nm of torque combined with a six-speed Getrag manual gearbox or a six-speed Punch automatic gearbox with sequential, Sport or Eco modes.
Both engines can be combined with a Getrag mechanical gearbox or a six-speed Punch automatic gearbox with sequential, Sport or Eco modes and are available in 4×2 and 4×4 derivatives.
Launched at the end of this year, the new Peugeot Landtrek will meet the fundamentals of the one-ton pickup segment by enhancing the expertise of the Peugeot brand.
Before deployment in other countries, the first launches will be in Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa.