Total South Africa was established in 1954 and is 50.1% owned by multi-national Paris-based Company, Total Group. Total South Africa is a significant role player within the Total Group. Through our global alignment, we strive to ensure that our company is able to benefit from shared access to internationally acclaimed best practice, technological expertise and top-flight business innovations. Total South Africa’s business focus encompasses the manufacturing, sales and marketing of a range of petroleum products for the retail, commercial, agricultural and industrial markets. With a portfolio of 547 service stations located throughout South Africa, we are a key player in the country’s petrochemical market, with products ranging from jet fuel, liquid petroleum gas to lubricants, grease and kerosene. The company enjoys a 36.6% share in the Natref Refinery and has wholly-owned subsidiaries in Namibia, Botswana and Swaziland. Total South Africa is committed to developing our great nation and was one of the first oil companies to introduce service stations in previously disadvantaged areas. Considered to be a pioneer within the local employment industry, Total South Africa is recognised for its substantial number of firsts when it comes to progressive transformation. Notably, it was the first multinational oil company in South Africa to appoint a female executive. During the sixties, it was also the first oil company to introduce its brand into what was then known as predominantly black townships, also taking the initiative to appoint black service station owners.  Today, the company continues to make great progress in the transformation arena as part of its effort to contribute towards an adaptive economy which is characterised by growth, employment and equity. In pursuit of this goal, Total South Africa became the first oil company to achieve the fully unencumbered 25% shares for its BEE shareholders, TOSACO, in 2010. Consequently, the company is now owned 49.9% by South African shareholders and 50.1% by the TOTAL Group in France. It also became the first multinational company in the country to achieve its Level 1 B-BBEE Contributor status. Recently recognised as one of the country’s top employers by the 2014 Top Employer South Africa survey, Total South Africa is known for its outstanding working conditions and the exceptional manner in which it cares for its staff members. The company views employment contracts as a two-way partnership and as such looks for meaningful ways in which to celebrate its people and the work which they put into making Total South Africa a success. The organisation’s outstanding employment environment is structured to nurture and develop talent throughout all spheres of the company. 