 BARBERTON – Sebastian was born in Lydenburg in 1920, before moving to Sabie and then Barberton, where she was married to Robert Sebastian on August 27, 1941, at the All Saints Catholic Church. Margaret went on to bear 10 children, seven sons and three daughters, and played an active role in the community, judging by the crowd who wished her well for her 100th birthday on Monday. Of her brood, only two sons and three daughters remain, who agree that Margaret’s firm belief in Christianity has shaped their lives and moulded them into model citizens. Her youngest son, Prince Sebastian, flanked by his eldest sister, Doris Charles, agreed. “Our mother has always been the backbone of the family and a strong pillar of support for her children.” The two siblings said that Margaret’s mind is still very keen and she has a fiercely independent spirit. “She still crochets and cooks and remembers recipes from years ago, which she is still passing down to her grand- and great-grandchildren,” Prince said. ALSO READ: Covid-19: The number of confirmed cases in Mpumalanga as of May 14 Amazingly, Margaret has retained much of her mobility, although she uses a walker to negotiate her way around the family home in Barberton. Prince continued, “Her mind is still as sharp as ever and when she crochets, doesn’t use glasses. We are grateful that she is still with us today.” The siblings include Audrey Peter, who has returned to South Africa to take care of her mother after a stint in America. “My mother raised all of us in the Christian faith and was actively involved in charitable work throughout the community. She has been very faithful and active as a congregant at the Seventh Day Adventist Church, which is a passion she has passed down to all of us. “She is a woman of great wisdom,” Audrey said. A housewife for a large part of her life, Margaret’s children remember her for her passion for community involvement and the time she spent making samoosas for the former mayor, Henry Nettman’s fish and
chip shop. “She would make 1 200 samoosas every Friday, and this strong work ethic served to inspire us in our daily lives and careers,” said Prince. With the recent Covid-19 outbreak and the obligatory social distancing regulations, the family were unable to celebrate Margaret’s birthday in a more lavish fashion, but extended their thanks to all who reached out from all corners of the globe to wish her a very special 100 years. Margaret’s true wealth lies in the 21 grandchildren and the 25 great-grandchildren (of whom 23 are still alive), who will continue her legacy of faithfulness and steadfastness in Christ. ALSO READ: Spar donates food for flights