 South Africa will move into level 3 lockdown on June 1, 2020. Since the country was placed under lockdown on March 26, there have been various rules regulating the movement of both adults and children. Parents have had to ensure that their own moves and that of their children are compliant. Many have been wondering what level 3 will demand from South Africans as far as the comings and goings of minors are concerned. Caxton Local Media summarises what parents must know. In terms of the latest regulations, children who go to school (when this is allowed) will have to carry permits with them. These permits are issued by the head of the relevant school or educational institution. GET THE PERMIT: Click here for the relevant regulations and scroll to page 16 for form 3A. These adults must bear permits issued by the head of the school or educational institution that the child attends. GET THE PERMIT: Click here for the relevant regulations and scroll to page 17 for form 3B. To legally transport your child, you will have to be either a co-holder of parental rights and responsibilities or an officially appointed caretaker of the child. The regulations distinguish between children who are moved within district and metropolitan boundaries, and those who need to cross such boundaries. To move a child legally from one residence to another within the same district or metropolitan area, an adult must have: GET THE PERMIT: Click here to access the relevant regulations and scroll to page 30. To move a child legally from one residence to another located in a different district or metropolitan areas, an adult must have: The video below explains how such a permit is obtained.  Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).