“We are here for you” – It’s a simple message but it means so much. It’s the number one message to shoppers and the public from owners and developers of Dwarsloop Mall, New Africa Developments. SASSA has announced that it will again serve  the elderly and people with disabilities, on two separate days at the beginning of the pay-out week. These grants will be paid on the 4th and 5th of in an effort to curb the spread of Covid-19 and ensure that these most vulnerable members of society are prioritized.  It is with this in mind that the Dwarsloop Mall management team has taken a pro-active approach to support the upcoming SASSA payments by providing a free loaf of bread to the elderly and the frail on the 4th and 5th of May when using their grant money at the Dwarsloop Mall’s supporting retailers.  “These are the most vulnerable members of our society and as a community mall we feel this is a small gesture but will mean so much to these cherished members of society” comments Rochelle van Niekerk, Asset Manager for New Africa Developments. “Dwarsloop Mall is supported in this initiative by Super Spar, Boxer and A1 Food Store who will be assisting in the distribution of the free loaves of bread, on behalf of Dwarsloop Mall”. Covid-19 is global pandemic that has brought additional strain to an already struggling South African economy. It is at times like this that importance of bringing much needed services into previously undeveloped areas is unlike any, with thousands of people relying on essential goods and services close to where they live.  Dwarsloop in Mpumalanga previously did not have a shopping center close enough to service its 194 000 people, but with the redeveloped Dwarsloop Mall now trading, local residents are able to secure essential products and critical services close to home which greatly lessens the chance of contamination. The food court seating will continue to be used as a comfortable, yet highly affective social distancing tool. Chairs will be placed at 2m distances so shoppers do not have to stand whilst waiting for access to grocery stores. Chairs are disinfected after every shopper, with complimentary hand sanitizers available at all entrances.  The mall management also regularly communicates on Facebook as well as RFM and Radio Bushbuckridge so that residents are kept informed and aware of which shops are trading and at what times. We are also sharing any official governmental publications that are of interest to the community. New Africa Developments is committed to being a pillar of strength to the communities in which we serve. Dwarsloop Mall is situated on the arterial R40 between Hazyview and Hoedspruit at the major Thulamahashe intersection.    