 This has left business owners with no means of paying their workers. These workers are left with no means to provide their families with food and other necessities. A KaBokweni businessman decided to help ease the burden from affected families by handing out food parcels in wards 22 and 23. ALSO READ: Three suspects arrested for pretending to be Covid-19 officials Manik Haque owns the KaBokweni Old Complex, a shopping centre where the community can do their shopping and can access a pharmacy. The food parcels were handed to 110 families in need. They consisted of mealie meal, brown sugar, cooking oil, potatoes, onions, teabags, juice, cabbage and tinned goods.  Haque told Lowvelder that he decided to help the community because of their endless support for his business. “I am a foreign national and I first came to KaBokweni in 2004, I had nothing to my name, I then decided to start a small shop where the community could buy goods. They supported my shop and helped it to grow. Now I am where I am because of their endless support and their love.” Haque said that he wishes to continue to help more community members with food parcels. “There are more people that need food parcels but I cannot provide them with any for now. I have exhausted my funds.”  Matsidiso Shakoane, a KaBokweni community member, helped the elderly and orphans to register for food parcels. “I have been living in KaBokweni all my life and I know the community well. I helped the elderly who have no source of income and orphans to register to get the much needed food parcels.” Everyone who got inside the Old Complex was sprayed with hand sanitiser and given reusable, rewashable masks to help them curb the spread of Covid-19 and protect them. The KaBokweni SAPS was present to control the crowds and help them practice social distancing.  Linah Marsh (70) was grateful for the food parcel she received. “Matsidiso Shakoane told me that Haque was giving out food parcels and she helped me register to get one. I am grateful for such a generous gesture. I am not working and I have grandchildren that I need to take care of. This food will really help us.” Sesi Sibanyoni (59) said, “I have never seen someone go out of their way to help the community of KaBokweni like Haque has. I am grateful that he has provided us with these food parcels to help us feed our families. I am not working and rely on the grant to push us through”. Solly Mabuza (30), is a single father of four who earned an income by selling ice-cream on the streets of KaBokweni, but the lockdown has disadvantaged him. “As a single father of four, I have no means of providing for my children because of the lockdown.” ALSO READ: Five easy steps to apply for an essential service permit during lockdown level 4 “I am thankful for Haque for doing this for the community. I thank God that I was fortunate enough to receive the food parcel and I will be forever grateful.”