 Today, Sandton is part of the Johannesburg Metropole and the wealthiest district in South Africa. Sandton has become the principal financial district of South Africa and is home to many corporates, as well as the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), which is the largest stock market in Africa. Sandton is also home to the head office of Nthwese Developments, a black-owned property development and management company, of which Herbert Theledi is the managing director. However, even though having a head office in the principal financial district of South Africa and managing a company with a portfolio to the value of more than R2.5 billion, Herbert Theledi hasn’t renounced the roots and world of his younger years, the rural communities. Herbert has been passionate about the development of rural communities since an early stage in his life – a true and ardent standard-bearer for the uplifting of rural communities. Herbert Theledi was born and bred in rural communities in the Lowveld, and thus fully aware of the challenges and problems dominating and threatening rural communities in the country. He was born in Sabie, but his family was subjugated to a forced removal under the then draconic Group Areas Act. As a consequence of the forced removal, the young Herbert spent the better part of his early years in Bushbuckridge. He matriculated at Thembeka Secondary School in Kanyamazane. As managing director of Nthwese Developments, Herbert expressed some of his thoughts about property developments in townships and rural areas in an article, “#BizTrends2019: Rural and township retail property trends”, in BizTrends 2019, issued by bizcommunity.com. The article was dated 7 January 2019. Here are some excerpts from Herbert Theledi’s article: Herbert Theledi is undoubtedly convinced about the potential of townships and rural areas as breeding grounds for potential entrepreneurs. Herbert Theledi’s fervour and enthusiasm for the upliftment of rural communities is also evident with the opening of new shopping centres in rural areas. Taking Herbert’s comments at the opening of the Thulamahashe Mall in Bushbuckridge in Mpumalanga as an example, his passion for the advancement of the rural areas is crystal clear. Thulamahashe Mall is a R240 million project by Nthwese Developments in partnership with Twin City. At the opening of the mall on 25 October 2018, Herbert Theledi reiterated his mission for rural communities, saying, inter alia: The mayor of Bushbuckridge Local Municipality echoed Theledi’s words, saying: “The implementation of this development will help in improving the lives of many people in Bushbuckridge and will also help in creating job opportunities.” The mayor was positive that the Thulamahashe Mall development would continue to “stir economic growth” in the Bushbuckridge municipality and invited other investors to help the municipality “in building a better community” for the people. Herbert Theledi was certainly satisfied and grateful that the Thulamahashe Mall project had succeeded in creating more opportunities for businesses and the development had helped to reduce unemployment in the rural community. Herbert Theledi’s mission as a standard-bearer for rural communities is encapsulated in the following words, spoken by him at the opening of the Bambanani Shopping Centre in Diepsloot: “For a company committed to community development, Bambanani Shopping Centre epitomises Nthwese’s mission of long-term job creation and empowerment of disadvantaged communities.” In the past, when the opportunity presented itself and he had time at his disposal, Herbert also served the rural community of Bushbuckridge as a member of the Bushbuckridge Chamber of Commerce. Follow Herbert Theledi’s journey on Linkedin