As a critical food supplier who has been active since lockdown level five, Ambassador Foods is well stocked with guaranteed fresh products at the best value for money. With their wide range of premium products, they will keep you warm and fuzzy during the upcoming winter season.  You can visit their new location in White River, or order from the online shop in the comfort of your home.  Their winter warmer range is the perfect guilty pleasure if you have a sweet tooth, and it comes as no surprise that the Turkish Delight and vanilla fudge (only R10 a slab) are some of the best sellers in store.   With Father’s Day coming up on June 21, spoil your dad with a gorgeous bandanna that works great as a face mask, or a chef’s apron from the Pappa Chef Range. Nadine Wilkens, the e-commerce general manager, also suggests their ground coffee or beard oil as the perfect Father’s Day gift.   Ek het uit die hok ontsnap na die nuwe Ambassador Factory Shop ! Vandag was my noodsaaklike inkopies dag en ek moes net gaan kyk hoe lyk die nuwe Ambassador Factory Shop SA ! Ek het dit so geniet ! En hier is die lekker ding jy kan al hierdie bederf aanlyn bestel enige plek in die land vir net R 70.00 ! Besoek www.factoryshoponline.co.za vir meer ! Kyk gerus saam ! Dankie Pronto Computer Solutions wat hierdie video moontlik gemaak het met hulle ongelooflike IT bystand gedurende #LockDown ! Besoek hulle gerus vir jou IT oplossing gedurende inperking by www.prontocs.co.za ! Posted by Pieter Malan – PappaChef on Thursday, 7 May 2020 Over the past two years, their range has expanded from nuts, seeds, fruit and snacks to include; pastas, sauces, cheese and meat alternatives for vegans, to name a few. They also sell beverages and cleaning products.  Visit Ambassador Foods in their new location at Bahati Centre on the corner of the R40 and R537.
Current store hours are Mondays to Fridays, 08:00 to 17:00, and Saturdays from 09:00 to 13:00.  It is quick and easy to order online. Delivery is R70 and is fast and effective, next-day delivery for local orders, 2-3 day delivery nationally. Get your shipping free if you order over R1000 (national) and free for local Mpumalanga deliveries on orders over R300.     