 The minister of cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta), Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, permitted once off movements by people who were locked in other provinces other than where they reside or work, to return to their appropriate provinces. The movement of people was permitted from May 1 and will end tonight (& May) just before midnight. There was no need for people to obtain and produce a permit in order to cross provincial, metropolitan or district boundaries. Over 450 of those vehicles were issued with notices to discontinue. Twenty four vehicles were discontinued due to defects. The traffic volumes were further expected to increase today as most people will be rushing to other provinces. Although there are about 14 law enforcement operations across the province, Mpumalanga MEC for community, security and liaison, Gabisile Shabalala called for those who will be travelling to do so safely. She reiterated a call to motorists to abide by the provisions of the lockdown. Shabalala reminded those who want to travel to be aware that once they are in other provinces after midnight, they will no longer be allowed to move across provinces. She also appealed to all taxi operators to ensure that no passengers are allowed inside their vehicles without face masks. ALSO READ: Grants see long queues across the Lowveld She again encouraged the law enforcers to spur no effort in dealing with those who break the law. “Government is working around the clock to curb the spread of Covid-19 and in order for us to win, everyone must respect measures put in place to eradicate the pandemic. Therefore those who disobey the law should face the consequences of their conduct,” said Shabalala. The MEC urged the communities who visit shopping centres to pay close regard to social distancing while they are doing their shopping. She was deeply disturbed by some community members who are not observing social distancing while they are shopping. ALSO READ: SANDF makes biggest dagga bust since start of lockdown According to the MEC, management and shop owners should put measures in place to minimise chaos at their premises.