 MBOMBELA – The Covid-19 lockdown has produced a boom at some of South Africa’s regional fresh produce markets, due to the demand for cheaper and direct access to fresh produce. Luan Wentzel, MD at RSA Tshwane and RSA Regional Markets, said, “Both our RSA Vaal and RSA Nelspruit operations surpassed their monthly sales record on April 21, with eight trading days still to go. “Current estimates also indicate that Polokwane will surpass its April record by at least 10 per cent at month end. Mooketsi market isn’t in line for a record but is performing at similar levels to last year.” Luan Wentzel. ALSO READ: Agriculture MEC, Vusi Shongwe, donates PPE to the province’s agricultural sector Since the lockdown, South Africa’s fresh produce markets have seen an increase in private buyers as well as the retail and informal traders network. “Numbers are almost impossible to define, especially because lots of different groups pool resources for group buying, but the feedback from our agents clearly shows that there has been substantial increase in the numbers of people buying for personal use compared to pre-lockdown,” said Wentzel. This growth signifies the versatility of South African fresh produce markets which comprise an invaluable part of the national food supply chain as well as an alternative to citizens living far away from supermarkets, or do not have access to street hawkers and informal traders.  ALSO READ: Spotting in KNP continues despite Covid-19 lockdown Wentzel said, “Supply is strong, and our farmers are producing well, but there is no doubt that certain parts of the country are challenged in terms of access to food and fresh produce. “The markets are performing a crucial function in this context, and RSA Group is doing everything it can do make sure all buyers have the support they need.” The company is helping buyers who ask for assistance obtain the permits they need to officially procure and transport produce during lockdown. RSA Group has also collaborated with Freshlinq (which manages the regional markets and their data systems) to implement the access control and social distancing measures necessary to ensure the safest possible environment for buyers and traders on the floors.  ALSO READ: Urgent call for Public Comments on the Division of Revenue Bill, 2020 “A strong health and safety approach creates trust in the system and processes, and makes the facility easy to use. This is very important in the context of the pandemic. “The new visitor’s experience features thorough safety protocols throughout, which creates a sense of security and sees more buyers arriving to purchase fresh produce at the facility,” said Wentzel. Core safety measures at the country’s regional fresh produce markets include:

Access control at facility gates
Only a certain number of vehicles are allowed into the market at one time. This limits close contact queuing and allows buyers to wait, isolated in their vehicles. Access control at market hall entrances
Market hall entrances are access controlled, and a limited number of buyers, agents and officials are allowed in the hall at any one time. Sanitiser
All buyers’ hands are sanitised upon entrance to the market hall. Sanitiser is freely available throughout the market Social distancing floor marking Market floors feature clear signage to help participants maintain the right distances from each other PPE for market personnel Everyone working at the markets is provided with face masks and gloves Sterilisation
All work surfaces are sterilised on a regular basis. Product handling
Product displays are positioned to eliminate product handling by buyers. Buyer queues
Trading processes have been structured to limit buyer queues at every transaction point 