 MBOMBELA – Truck traffickers operating under cover of the Covid-19 lockdown were unpleasantly surprised after being arrested on Sunday evening in Piet Retief. According to the Mpumalanga police spokesperson, Brig Leonard Hlathi, the four men, ranging in age between 25 and 42, were arrested for possession of dagga with an estimated street value of R 101,000. “Police received information about people who were trafficking drugs between Pongola and Piet Retief. They  followed up on the information and noticed a silver Toyota Double Cab bakkie with four occupants, matching the description of the vehicle given. Brigadier Leonard Hlathi. ALSO READ: SANDF makes biggest dagga bust since start of lockdown “The police stopped the bakkie and after a thorough search, found bags full of dagga,” Hlathi said. The four men, Bongiwe Sithole (25), Zothini Thusin (42), Lethiwe Ngobese (41) and Senzo Mngoma (34), appeared at the Mkhondo Magistrates Court on Tuesday to face charges of possession of dagga. They were remanded into custody and appeared today to apply for bail. In an unrelated incident on Monday, members of the SANDF on a routine patrol, observed a white Toyota double cab moving in their direction. When the driver noticed them, he stopped the vehicle and fled on foot. A search of the bakkie revealed dagga with an estimated street value of R1 million. The Provincial Commissioner of the South African Police Service in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant General Mondli Zuma. ALSO READ: A serial rapist is to be sentenced at Graskop Magistrate’s Court next week “Police have opened an inquiry into matter and have launched a manhunt in this regard. The dagga and the bakkie were confiscated, ” Hlathi said. The Mpumalanga SAPS commissioner, welcomed the arrests and issued a warning to would-be drug traffickers that law enforcement agencies are stepping up the fight against crime. ALSO READ: WATCH: Leopard shares its favourite spot with Skukuza Golf Course camera Members of the public with information which may lead to an arrest in the second case are urged to contact the police by calling 10111 or sending an SMS to 32211. They can also call 08600 10111 to leave an anonymous tip. The MYSAPSAPP is another alternative for those wishing to blow the whistle on crime. All information will be treated with the strictest confidence. 