Over the past three months, Lowvelder has reported extensively on a spate of attempted hijackings and attempted robberies in the West Acres, Stongehenge and Kaapsehoop Road areas. In all the incidents, victims and eyewitnesses have reported the involvement of two suspects using a white VW Polo TSI as the getaway car. The Nelspruit police have noted an escalating number of incidents in which hitch-hikers are targeted by suspects driving a grey VW Polo. ALSO READ: Well-known Barberton car collector robbed and scammed Brig Leonard Hlathi, the provincial police spokesperson said, “In one incident, a woman hitch-hiking to KaBokweni was offered a lift by men driving a silver-grey VW Polo. “They drove the unsuspecting woman to Vintonia (Old Pretoria Road) and threatened her with a firearm. The suspects robbed her of her cell phone and bank cards before leaving her stranded on the side of the road,” he said. According to Hlathi, the case is still under investigation, but no arrests have been made as yet. The suspects appear to be targeting hitch-hikers and do not prey on a particular gender. ALSO READ: Bail verdict for ANC rape accused out next week “In another incident, suspects in a silver-grey VW Polo picked up another victim on the R40 near Tiger Wheel and Tyre, which is a known hitchhiking spot. “They dropped him off in the bush and robbed him of an undisclosed amount of cash, his cellphone and bank cards. A man who is presumed to have been thumbing a lift along the Old Pretoria Road was also robbed of his bag,” According to Hlathi, a number of robbery cases were registered at the Nelspruit Police Station involving a white and black VW Polo, with the same modus operandi. ALSO READ: Elvis Mulimi and Joseph Nyalunga granted postponement in the Nelspruit Regional Court This information suggests that there are three vehicles scouring the streets for soft targets in need of a lift who are easily preyed on. “The Nelspruit station management asks that community members avoid hitch-hiking as it poses a serious danger to their lives. Reports suggest that several people have fallen victim to criminals while hitch-hiking and some were even raped or murdered,” he added. The Nelspruit SAPS asks anyone who might able to provide information to contact Det Col Ernest Maoka on 082-318-9843 or the toll-free Crime Stop number on 086-001-0111. A LSO READ: Matsulu woman killed for failing to pay mashonisa Tip-offs can also be provided anonymously on the MySAPSApp that can be downloaded to any smartphone. “All information will be treated with the strictest confidentiality and callers can opt to remain anonymous,” Hlathi concluded.