Mpumalanga has been selected for 11 new Collect & Go smart locker sites which means that patients with chronic conditions won’t have to queue any longer at clinics to collect their monthly medication. Collect & Go is a partnership between Right ePharmacy and the Department of Health. Patients living in and around Mpumalanga have begun collecting their medicine parcels from these smart lockers with numbers increasing steadily, as more people realise the benefits of using this quick, safe and convenient medicine collection service. Fanie Hendriksz, managing director of Right ePharmacy, said, “Collect & Go has taken patients who are doing well on their medication out of congested healthcare facilities during Covid-19. With our easy medicine collection service, social distancing is easy, especially as we all try to prevent a second wave of Covid-19. ALSO READ: Inspirational Maths teacher inspires learners one equation at a time “We are helping people stay on their medicine and maintain strong immune systems. If someone with a chronic condition that needs medicine to stay well stops taking their medicine, their illness will increase and it will weaken their ability to fight Covid-19,” he explained. To access Collect & Go, patients must first be registered by their healthcare worker at their clinic. Collect & Go is very easy to use. “Your medication is stored in a locker. When you collect it, you enter a one-time PIN that is sent to you via SMS. You will collect a two-month supply of medication. You only need to go to the clinic for a follow-up visit every six months and you will get a reminder SMS for that appointment, so you don’t forget. A friend or family member can also collect the medicine from the smart locker, providing you give them your PIN,” said Hendriksz. ALSO READ:  Nelspruit Hospice shop pops up once againBoitumelo Kwapeng, Mpumalanga team leaded for Collect & Go in Mpumalanga said, “Collect & Go is about making life better for citizens in Mpumalanga. My team and I are available to help patients with their medicine or collection queries. We also have a helpline for queries.” The helpline number is 080 111 2228 and the website is www.collectandgo.co.za where you are able to find the closest locker to you.  ALSO READ: Think twice before hitching a lift, warn Nelspruit SAPS The Collect & Go smart lockers are situated at: Mbombela Nelspruit CHC at 10 Branders Street, Nelspruit Msogwaba Clinic at 2B Msogowaba Road, Nelspruit  Acornhoek Cottondale Clinic at Near Moses Mnisi High School, Cottondale Arthur’s Seat Arthur’s Seat Clinic Gutshwakop Bhuga CHC at Gutswakop,  KaBokweni Kabokweni CHC at Mbombela KaBokweni Township, Main Street Kanyamazane Kanyamazane CHC at 23 Cobra Street, Kanyamazane-A, Manzini-A Phola, Nsikazi CHC at Phola  Marijane-B Maviljan Clinic at Maviljan, Mpumalanga Matsulu-A Matsulu CHC at Kaapmuiden, Stand 438, Simunye Street Newington Agincourt CHC at Stand 1257, Acornhoek, Thulamahashe