Valencia Combined School has a new headmaster, Ben Bongani Mohuba (45).  Boasting 22 years of experience in the education field, he said the school has so much potential and working in unity is all they need to achieve the best results. His mission is to see the school moving to the next level of technology and he said this can be achieved if the community of Valencia can work with the school. ALSO READ: Bail verdict for ANC rape accused out next week He was appointed in April, but due Covid-19 he started working in June.
“I have studied the school, we have the best teachers, they have capacity and they have content knowledge. I like the location of the school but I discovered that the school does not have the community’s support. I want the entire community to be part of the school,” he explained. Mohuba has big plans to help improve the school’s grade 12 pass rate and he believes in the learners.
“This is our last push for this year and we need to work hard. The school under-performed in the matric results last year and I would like to see better results in 2020,” he explained. ALSO READ: Well-known Barberton car collector robbed and scammed According to him, this year the school will walk the learners into the examination room. “By walking them we mean that there is a programme during their trial exams that is already underway. They come to school on Saturdays. We expect them to be at school when they have exams the next day. This will enable the teachers to give them revision lessons. They will also have coaching sessions with their teachers. This will help them learn various strategies in which they can use to respond to the questions in the examination papers. “As a mathematics teacher I am also playing my role in helping the learners. As a headmaster it is my responsibility to support the teachers,” he said. Mohuba was previously the principal of Sidungeni High School in Pienaar. He was appointed in 2018 although he acted since 2017.
“Sidungeni was under-performing when I started working there. It had a 40 per cent past rate. In 2019 they achieved 100 per cent pass rate,” he said.
According to him he wanted to be part of Valencia Combined School because he wants to grow and face bigger challenges.