The coronavirus has changed the world as we knew it and one of the biggest challenges the virus has left us with is that of many, many hungry South Africans. “In past years we’ve had fun activities with branded shopper bags and giveaways at the centre during our birthday month” says centre manager, Anita McGarry. “This year we decided that, while we love to spoil our shoppers, the need for food assistance in our community is so huge that we would rather put our birthday budget towards this.  “There is a slight twist though. We didn’t want to just drop off donations of food to various charities. We approached Lowvelder with our idea and, fortunately, the paper liked it so much it happily agreed to partner with us in our birthday food assistance initiative. “As we are such an integral part of the community we took the next obvious step, that of inviting our shoppers, Lowvelder readers and the general community to come on board and participate in the food assistance programme. “All you need to do is go to our website and purchase a lucky draw e-ticket – for just R17 – and the centre will match each ticket sale. There’s no limit to the number of tickets you can buy and, here’s the fun part – we had to include some fun, it is our birthday after all! – each ticket you buy is automatically entered into a lucky draw in which you stand the chance of winning a share of over R10 000 worth of shopping vouchers! “But wait, there’s more… there will also be R500 shopping vouchers up for grabs for the person(s) who purchases the 100th ticket, the 250th ticket, the 500th ticket and the 1 000th, with a R750 shopping voucher going to the person who buys the 2 000th ticket and a R1 000 voucher to the 2 500th ticket buyer!” concludes McGarry. Additional shopping vouchers will be given away over the next three weeks via Lowvelder’s online Winning Wednesday. The centre’s two chosen feeding schemes are Feed the Need White River and Sinani Unlimited. “Lowvelder nominates the HallsBuscor food-relief project and ProLife Pet Rescue as our two charities. We have seen what a difference the Halls-Buscor food-relief project made during the lockdown to the lives of people in need. We would love to see it continuing its excellent work. “And for our four-legged friends, we nominate Pro-Life to help it keep up the good work,” Tarina Coetzee, editor of Lowvelder, said. Ticket sales go live on Friday, October 9 and the bumper prize is a R5 000 shopping voucher for Crossing Centre with two runnerup prizes of R2 500 shopping vouchers each. Standard Ts & Cs apply for the Lucky Draw. Unlimited tickets may be purchased. Ticket sales close at midnight on October 31. The Lucky Draw Prize Shopping Vouchers are valid to spend in ONE specific store only at Nelspruit Crossing Centre i.e. the prize voucher cannot be spilt over two or more stores. Prize vouchers are valid for 90 days only. For more information: