The controversy surrounding the newly established zoo, Pumbaa Wildlife Park, is far from over. Petitions are nearing 10 000 signatures, and organisations like Ban Animal Trading, and Lowvelders alike, stand firm that no zoo will operate on their watch. They echo the illogical existence, since the zoo is situated less than an hour away from the Kruger National Park. The owners, Hennie and Melanie Maritz, maintain that all is above board and that they want to provide education opportunities at their facility, which will be research-based. The zoo also caught the attention of Carte Blanche, which will air the story on M-Net on Sunday night. Watch the trailer While filming the episode, contrary to the inevitable backlash of incredulity, many turned up in support of Pumbaa Wildlife Park. Nelspruit SPCA previously told Lowvelder that many inspections had been carried out and it was satisfied concerning the animals’ welfare. The Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) approved Hennie’s application to establish and operate a zoo, and it is expected to open in January. There is, however, still a question mark over the permits for the animals, some of which are endangered. ALSO READ: Controversial restaurant a bridge too far Lowvelder previously reported that a docket had been opened against Hennie. The exact details surrounding the case remain unknown. However, Monica Nyuswa, spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority, confirmed that the case has been set for trial in May 2021. Kholofelo Nkambule, spokesperson for the MTPA, again in an email confirmed that the current legislation allows for zoos to be opened, but not all Pumbaa’s permits are in order. “As part of the permit application process, the MTPA requires the proposed facility management plan as part of the evaluation process before assigning officials to conduct compliance monitoring and site inspection. Provisional/principle approval is given beforehand for the management plan only, if it meets the minimum requirements for a proposed facility,” Nkambule said. “The MTPA has granted Pumbaa Wildlife Park a permit following a full process of permit application, evaluation process, site inspections and approval by the MTPA Permit Evaluation Committee. “The facility submitted the application with the management plan to the MTPA, which was evaluated and met the minimum requirements. The MTPA has in principle given them approval on the management plan only. Additional information was requested and was therefore provided by the applicants prior to giving provisional approval. “The MTPA can confirm that Pumbaa Wildlife Park has 142 animals in total. Most of them have the correct permits, some of them are still under investigation with relevant authorities. We can, however, not comment on that process,” she said.Even though Hennie as well as the MTPA supplied the final approval to establish and operate a zoo, Hennie refused to give copies of the permits to authorise the transportation and possession of each animal. Melanie, however, showed this publication the permits during its visit to the zoo. The Maritzes’ attorney, Mandla Macbeth Ncongwane, as well as the MTPA, required a formal request for access to record of public body in terms of the Section 18(1) of the Promotion of Access to Information Act, 2000. Read all the previous stories published by Lowvelder: Eienaar sê wildpark buite Mbombela is vir ‘n goeie doel  IN PHOTOS: A look inside Mpumalanga’s zoo  Multifaceted debate over Mpumalanga’s first zoo far from over   