PLASTON – Stander (38), who was shot and killed in an attack on a smallholding in the area earlier this week, will be buried on what would have been his 39th birthday this Friday. However, instead of celebrating the prospect of another year that Stander could have spent making memories with his family, his loved ones will stand next to an open grave, mourning his passing due to yet another senseless attack. ALSO READ: Man’s death still a mystery a year later Stander, a well-known attorney of Swanepoel & Partners, fought to the death, breaking furniture on his attackers, trying to keep them away from his family. According to his older brother, MC, who stays in White River, it was in Gerrit’s nature to be the hero. “It is difficult to keep everything together when he was everyone’s pillar of strength,” he said. He became known as the father who waited at his eight-year-old’s school, Curro, until he was sure she was safe before he left in the mornings. He also went on regular father-daughter outings with her.  It was around 02:00 on Monday when a harrowing voice message reached the Stander family’s WhatsApp group. ALSO READ: Covid-19 eis ook Innibos 2020 “Call the police. Three armed men in the house,” Gerrit’s wife, Yolandi, said in the message. “I phoned her back and she answered, but while I was on the phone with her, one of the suspects took it from her,” MC said.“Lola, the dog that was in the house at the time, went berzerk as they entered the house, and Gerrit woke up,” he said. According to his father, Martiens, who stays on the same property, the suspects allegedly cut the electric fence and broke down the security door and back door leading to the laundry to gain access to the house. “When Gerrit encountered the suspects as he was going up the stairs, they shoved him back into the room. A scuffle ensued as he bundled them back upstairs, away from his wife and daughter. During the fight that he put up, he sustained three gunshot wounds to his liver, lung and arm.” The suspects continued to ransack the main bedroom while Yolandi went to protect their daughter in her room. They made their getaway with two phones, a laptop and a television.Martiens and his youngest son, Christiaan, who also stays on the premises, rushed to the scene, but the suspects had already fled. “My mother recalls how he sat on the floor with his back against the wall. His eyes were droopy and he said he was in pain,” said Christiaan. They phoned a local ambulance service, ER24, and they were apparently told that the area is too unsafe to respond. The family decided to rush Gerrit to hospital themselves when they learned that no help was going to arrive. Yolandi had in the meanwhile taken their eight-year-old to safety, closing her eyes to spare her from seeing her father in that state. She rushed to hospital with MC’s wife, while Christiaan drove Gerrit. Around 07:00 the family received the news that Gerrit had lost a lot of blood and succumbed to his wounds. The police confirmed that a case of house robbery and murder has been opened. The family alleges that the scene was contaminated by two junior officials “who were more concerned about the value of stolen items than catching the suspects”. It is also alleged that the police’s K9 unit was never deployed, and that the officials who responded, gave them permission to clean the scene after they had left. * Provincial police spokesman, Col Donald Mdhluli said on Wednesday that no arrests have been made. But, the news broke on Thursday that two suspects were arrested.  Regarding the allegations against the SAPS, he said if the family is not happy with the police’s handling of the scene, they should feel free to report those involved. ER24 said the safety of its patients and staff is a priority, and that it has both internal and external processes guiding its response. “We regard this matter in a very serious light and will be conducting an internal review to determine what transpired,” Werner Vermaak, ER24 corporate communication manager, said. Stander will be laid to rest on Friday at 14:00 at NG Gemeente Suid in the Amphitheatre – 93 Ehmke Street, Mbombela. Enquiries: 072-345-2335. MC said he wanted to specifically thank WO Grobbies Grobbler for his support to the family. The police appeal to members of the public to assist with information regarding this incident by contacting John Mabunda on 082-449-0334 or to call the Crime Stop number on 086-001-0111. Alternatively a tip-off can be given on the MySAPSApp that can be downloaded to any smartphone. All information will be treated as confidential and callers may opt to remain anonymous.