Now more than ever, businessmen need to regroup and focus on what the future holds and how best to deal with the inevitable change we are facing. What exactly is the “new normal” and how can we best address and harness the change to thrive? Business leaders in the Lowveld need to catch up with one another and discuss ways to deal with the inevitable changes we are facing. Yes, it is time for a retreat! “I would like to invite you to an exclusive retreat on November 4, just for business leaders, at the magical 4-star Mdluli Safari Lodge nestled inside the Kruger National Park, where you can unwind and be inspired by nature,” says event coordinator, Sandra Jacobs. This event was initiated by the Pinky Phosa Solutions Foundation and is generously co-sponsored by Citadel Wealth Management and Mdluli Safari Lodge. The overnight package of R3 000 per person includes a game drive, dinner, bed and breakfast. It is a midweek one-night breakaway, so you can be back at the office by midday on November 5.   After a game drive at sunset, you will be treated to dinner with guest speaker George Herman, chief investment officer of Citadel. ALSO READ: Support Sunflower Day in Mbombela and help save lives “George is an experienced speaker with unparalleled knowledge about the economic landscape we are operating in,” says Jacobs. His talk will revolve around the repercussions of Covid-19 on the economy, the “new normal” it brought with it and the strategies needed to tackle 2021. With only 50 delegates, the atmosphere will be relaxed and there will be ample time to ask questions and discuss matters of interest to you. “You will then retire to the luxury tented accommodation offered by the lodge. You are of course welcome to book for your spouse or partner at the same discounted rate as well. Mdluli Safari Lodge’s normal rack rate per person sharing is R3 850, so this is really a good deal, thanks to the substantial discount the Lodge is offering us,” Jacobs says. Former Springbok captain, Jean de Villiers, who is the head of philanthropy at Citadel, will do a short motivational talk at breakfast on Thursday morning. “Saving the best news for last: apart from the fact that the retreat offers a perfect opportunity to get into the right head space for 2021 at an affordable price, you will also be contributing to a fundraising action for CANSA. Thanks to the generosity of our sponsors, R500 of your booking ticket will be donated to CANSA. An 18A certificate can be issued for your contribution. These funds will be earmarked to do PSA prostate cancer screening tests in the rural areas,” she concludes. Kindly book early as space is limited to 50 delegates. “We look forward to welcoming you at the CEO Executive Retreat!”  Please email sandra@innibos.co.za to reserve your spot or call her on 082-853-7885. ALSO READ: SA Harvest recommits to ending hunger on World Food Day