“Matrics cannot wait until they receive their results – currently scheduled for release on February 23 next year – before applying, as this will most likely result in missing out on a space at their institution and for their qualification of choice. Deadlines at many institutions are still in place,” said Peter Kriel, general manager of the Independent Institute of Education, SA’s largest and most accredited private higher education institution.  “Beyond a later start to the higher education academic year, it is still not clear what else will have to be done in response to Covid-19 in 2021, but so many lessons have been learned that most institutions feel confident about navigating the year ahead,” he said.
Kriel added that the deadline for enrolment at many public and private institutions is only a month away, so matrics should be investigating their options and submit their applications without delay. “Particularly for full-time, contact undergraduate programmes, where there is much competition for a limited amount of space, prospective students need to make a commitment as soon as possible.” At certain institutions and for certain qualifications, such as diplomas or higher certificate programmes, applications may remain open for longer, but they still close when capacity is reached. There may also be late registration options or the option for registration right up until the start of the academic year, but it is best to secure one’s place timeously. ALSO READ: False job offers for Kruger Shalati Train on a Bridge Hotel and Kruger Station “Therefore, use your downtime to look at the options that interest you. It will provide a welcome and interesting break from revision, while also serving as motivation to do your best when you hit the books again. We all need to focus on the future,” Kriel said. According to him, learners who do not yet have a clear idea of what they want to study or where should look at all the options that appeal to them, and then contact a student advisor on these campuses for guidance. “It is particularly important to remember that historic pathways have been all but obliterated by the new world in which we now find ourselves. “Covid-19 and lockdown experiences served to realign our priorities and focus, and now, more than ever, it doesn’t make much sense to simply go study because of the perceived prestige of an institution or qualification. Prospective students should look at qualifications that make real-world sense and are geared towards preparing them for a competitive and ever-evolving job market.  “They also need to identify those institutions where students were able to continue studying mostly uninterrupted during the lockdown, with the kind of support that ensured they could continue to deliver to their best ability,” he said. Before settling on a qualification, learners should ensure that they have a clear idea of their envisioned academic path. “What do you want to do after qualifying? Have you considered all the options by looking at the prospectuses of more than one higher education institution? Have you considered the track record of alumni and the value a specific qualification has within an industry? These are all questions that you need to weigh up before signing up.” Kriel said prospective students may be surprised at the range of options available to them, which they may never even have heard of before. “The focus today should be on studying towards a work-focused, real-world qualification, and there is a large number of new and emerging careers from which to choose. Don’t wait and see when it comes to next year. The logistics will fall in place, but you need to make your move soon to ensure a smooth continuation of your educational journey in 2021.” ALSO READ: Nelspruit Hospice shop pops up once again