Tobie van Schalkwyk is making the move from Newcastle to Mbombela, where the staff as well as the community are ready to welcome him to the Lowveld as he steps into his role as the new director of operations and complex general manager at Emnotweni Casino. Originally from Bray, a small town in the Kalahari on the Botswana border, van Schalkwyk’s career has taken him to some interesting places in South Africa. Once he had completed his internal auditing studies at what was then Free State Technikon (now Central University of Technology) in Bloemfontein, he found himself on the west coast working in the fishing industry as a cost accountant. In 2006 he moved to the other side of the Western Cape where he took up a position in the Overberg as food and beverage accountant at The Caledon casino. This was the start of what has evolved into a 15-year journey in the casino industry. Four years after his move, The Caledon was bought by Tsogo Sun from Century Casinos Africa, which owned the property at the time. Van Schalkwyk moved through the ranks while learning the ins and outs of the casino industry and eventually became financial manager at The Caledon. ALSO READ: The Farmer’s Market @ Sonpark pays it forward In 2013 the Eastern Cape became his next destination and he spent four years as financial manager at Hemingways Casino in East London. In 2017 he moved inland and took up the role of general manager at Blackrock Casino in Newcastle. From October this year, Van Schalkwyk along with his wife and three children will set up home in Mbombela. As he bids farewell to Blackrock Casino he reflects on what he has achieved during his tenure there: “I am immensely proud to have witnessed the members of the Blackrock team grow as opportunities arose for them. On a ‘front-of-house’ level, it has been an utter pleasure to see how creatively the team brought the ‘fun’ into the casino and complex!” “I am really looking forward to getting to know the Emnotweni team and the unique aspects of Emnotweni as a business. Knowing the outgoing general manager, Adam MacIntyre, as well I do, I am completely confident that it will be a smooth transition to a property that has been in very capable hands under his leadership. My goal now is to ensure that Emnotweni remains the place to be in the Lowveld. Our continued focus will be keeping our guests entertained… after all, that is what we do isn’t it?” ALSO READ: White River residents get their hands dirty and their town clean Getting to know Tobie van Schalkwyk Can’t live without item? Not so much an item, but braai! Pet hate? Fake people. Just be real, be yourself. Books or movies? I love Deon Meyer’s books, and I love movies, any movie, there’s a place and time for every genre. My happy place is…. Next to the water with my family, fishing and having a braai. Top of my bucket list is… For now, the simple stuff like learning how to fly-fish. Family… My incredible wife and life partner is an artistic genius with cakes! Our eldest daughter (13) gets her artistic side from her mom and is a dancer. Our middle child, a ten-year old daughter, loves martial arts and thanks to lockdown, has became quite the console gamer. And then there is our little guy who is a very busy three-year old. Interesting fact about our family, four out of the five of us are left handed! ALSO READ: Jock of the Bushveld Trails rehabilitated