Residents took to the streets last Friday and brought operations at the WhiteHazy Construction Company to a halt, demanding business opportunities. They accused the City of Mbombela Local Municipality and its councillors of overlooking them when it comes to business opportunities and skills development. Sizwe Mashele, one of the community members, blamed the Ward 19 councillor for not prioritising their needs. Read: Road construction project not halted, says Sibiya “We have decided to take to the streets today because we are concerned about the lack of development of this township and its people. The ward councillor isn’t assisting us in any way. Local business people, especially young people and women are still not given equal opportunities when it comes to business opportunities when there are projects happening here. Our demands are simple – give us jobs and allow local women to participate in the economy as well,” said Mashele. He also called for the Hawks to investigate tender irregularities, arguing that they were only being awarded to a select few. “We are calling for an end to corruption because it is clear that the tenders are only benefiting a select few when there are so many business people in the township who are being overlooked. All we are asking for is to be recognised and be afforded equal opportunities to work,” he continued. Also read: TRAC urges community to report theft and property damage Another Ward 19 community member, Thami Malunga said the community stands and supports local female empowerment and argued that women were not given enough opportunities to do business in the area. “We have a great challenge here, especially in our branch. When there are projects, we are only given a small portion of work as subcontractors or general workers, with women being overlooked. “When the road project started, an agreement was made that women would also be considered but this has not happened,” Malunga lamented. Attempts to get hold of the City of Mbombela’s spokesperson, Joseph Ngala proved fruitless.