For home living spaces, spring season presents a perfect opportunity for upliftment and giving that space which was neglected during winter a refresh. One way to achieve this is by redecorating with carefully selected décor items. What type of décor items should be considered to freshen up your home this season? Guzzle has a galore of catalogues from leading retailers where you can find in-season décor items. Wallpaper Wallpaper is back with a vengeance. We’re seeing traditional wallpaper in vibrant colours, geometric patterns and large prints. Florals are particularly loud with giant palm and banana leaves, oversized blooms and metallic finishes. Floral prints are adorning open spaces and small rooms alike. Giant blooms bring a wash room alive, add a welcoming touch to an entrance and a romantic touch to the bedroom. Colour-pop cabinets If you really want to leave the all-white kitchen trend behind, opt for another 2020 home decor trend: coloured cabinets. According to the experts, the trend in 2020 is to choose one or several elements, like the kitchen island, kitchen wall cabinets, or base cabinets in daring colours, like dark red, bright yellow, green or navy blue. Olive trees Some green in your home is a must. While colour trends change from one year to the next, living greens are always in fashion. If 2019 was the year of the dramatic fiddle leaf fig, then 2020 will be the year of the much subtler olive tree. Instead of blooming bright green, these trees are a more sophisticated sage. Canopy beds If you ever dreamed of having a canopy bed but never really liked how big and bulky many of the traditional versions looked, this is the right time to finally make your wish come true! Canopy beds are really popular right now simply because they were reinvented and, in today’s market, you can easily find a canopy bed for almost every taste and budget. Update your paint This one doesn’t have to be anything of the charts and you can do it yourself. If your home is more about subtlety, then don’t go for strong colours just for the trend of it. Just change the shade instead. If your living room was muted blue, paint it a muted yellow, if your bedroom was neutral beige, make it light green, etc. And don’t worry about your rug or curtains not fitting in. It’s spring, everything is colourful and fresh. Clusters of pendant lights Do you want to up your lighting situation? Go for multi-pendant fixtures. At least five pendants will make all the difference especially ones that are made of natural materials, because what says, ‘Hey, spring is here’ than beautiful, woven pendants? It’s pretty spectacular when done right. Modern rattan Rattan started to make a reappearance in 2018, but this spring, it’s set to take the interior world by storm! Forget the simpler 70s look — rattan has been given a seriously modern update. Think peacock-inspired bedheads, wicker storage units, rattan and chrome chairs. There’s something out there for every room and budget. It really adds a level of comfort to your home that other materials can’t. Floral and botanical prints Incorporating beautiful floral art into your home can do some magic this spring. The floral art looks and feels springy and doesn’t cost much in most retail stores. You can make this season more refreshing and rejuvenating by buying affordable and suitable décor items from Guzzle.