MBOMBELA – Sipho Harrison Nkosi (39), also known as “Silver Mirror”, evaded law enforcement officials for years. Nkosi is alleged to have had a hand in a number of cash-in-transit (CIT) heists. Last Wednesday he and four others were fatally wounded in a shoot-out with the Sedibeng Tactical Response Team and the Ekhurhuleni SWAT team. According to police, five suspected CIT heist operators were fatally wounded after a CIT robbery in Dawn Park near Springs in Gauteng. The incident occurred at about 08:30 after a robbery was committed in Galahad Road in Dawn Park. ALSO READ: Top ANC politician’s bail application to be heard later today Col Brenda Muridili of the SAPS’ national head office, corporate communication and liaison, said in a statement, “An unknown number of suspects robbed security guards of an undisclosed amount of money before fleeing the scene, leaving one of their vehicles ablaze. “Intelligence led the two teams to Klippoortjie on Carol Avenue. On their arrival at the safe house, a shoot-out ensued between the suspects and the police. “Five suspects were fatally wounded while two were arrested.” ALSO READ: Female police officers allegedly sexually abused by senior officials at Lydenburg The police managed to recover some of the stolen money, along with four firearms, ammunition and three suspected stolen cars. “Three which had been hijacked in separate incidents in Gauteng this year in Springs, Midrand and Boksburg North, were also recovered. Four unlicensed firearms and ammunition and an undisclosed amount of money were also seized,” Mudirili continued. According to a source who did not want to be named, the police had been on Nkosi’s trail for a number of years, but could not get charges to stick. ALSO READ: Impostor handed stiff sentence in Nelspruit Regional Court “He faced numerous arrests, stretching 18 years back. These ranged from a house robbery in Matsulu in 2002, to attempted murder, possession of explosives, assault and a CIT heist,” the source said. The charges were laid in Mbombela in the City of Mbombela, KaBokweni, Matsulu, Tonga, Schoemansdal and White River policing precincts. Six of the charges were withdrawn and Nkosi was never linked to any CIT heists. Lowvelder could not confirm with the police that Nkosi numbered among the dead in last week’s shoot-out, but an impeccable source close to the investigation confirmed that Nkosi had died. ALSO READ: Top politician arrested for alleged rape Gen Khehla Sitole, the national police commissioner, lauded the SAPS for working together to ensure that the suspects were brought to book. “With the build-up to the festive season, there will be heightened vigilance and prioritisation of CIT robberies, especially in Gauteng where they are more prevalent,” said Sitole. The public is encouraged to send tip-offs using the MySAPS App or to contact the SAPS Crime Stop number on 0860-010-111. All information received will be treated with confidentiality.