Hundreds of people marched from Mbombela Stadium this morning, making their way to the offices of the South African Local Government Association, Transnet and finally to the provincial legislature where they handed over their memorandum to the acting premier, MEC Gillion Mashego. ALSO SEE: WATCH: Local COSATU joins national strike Leading the march was first deputy president of Cosatu, Mike Shingangeled. With masses of police on alert throughout the march, passers-by and drivers hooted and shouted in support of the massive crowd as people danced and sang their way toward the premier’s office.  The memorandum stated that the united workers want 100 per cent compliance with the OHS (occupational safety and health) direction and the regulations by the employer; PPEs for all front line workers; a regulated, safe and affordable public transport system; subsidisation of public transport and registration of taxi drivers and queue marshals for COIDA (Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act), and UIF. ALSO SEE: The Nelspruit police need your help to identify accident victim   The memorandum also demanded efficient prosecution of high-end public and private sector cases, banning “politically exposed” persons from doing business with the State: mandatory lifestyle audits of all senior officials involved in procurement, public finance management, supply chain oversight accountability oversight and related services; a name and shame list of serial offenders. ALSO SEE: KNP vet and ranger team rescues snared hyena   The memorandum contains a host of other demands all linked to corruption, retrenchment, gender-based violence, unemployment and attacks on collective bargaining.  Mduduzi Malope, a participant in the march, said there “is too much corruption while people suffer”.“We are also standing against gender-based violence. We have had enough of people abusing and hurting our sisters and our children,” said Malope.  “Hopefully the governing party will listen and respond to our challenges,” he said. A National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union shop steward, Vusi Makamu, said he hoped the government would hear what they had to say and take them seriously.  “The price of everything keeps escalating, but workers are not getting increases, instead we see millions disappearing due to corruption.” ALSO READ: Nelspruit SPCA committee members resign The marchers called on the State for action and to take resolutions urging those in charge to take control of the situation at hand.  The premier stood on the steps of the entrance to the complex, listening to everything the speakers had to say. The crowd dispersed peacefully once the memorandum had been handed over to Mashego.