This journey of amazing sights started on August 3 when two hippos got a little feisty with one another on the first tee.   Nervous teeshot on the first this morning Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Monday, 3 August 2020   Bit tough to keep your head down at the first tee this morning Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Monday, 3 August 2020  From there on things just got more interesting. On August 6, Jean Rossouw, Skukuza Golf Club course superintendent, otherwise known as the greenkeeper, went to do an early morning inspection of the course and was joined by a hyena. ALSO READ: Zoo on the outskirts of Mbombela catches national news’ attention   Doing the course inspection with me this morning Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Wednesday, 5 August 2020  The very next day more hyenas were spotted on the course, with, believe it or not, a catfish.   These lucky hyenas came across a catfish, probly one a fish eagle dropped . Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Thursday, 6 August 2020  More hyenas continued to join Rossouw with his inspections on August 9, as well as August 13. On the morning of August 16, Rossouw was joined by some beautiful lions strolling around the third tee while doing his inspections.   Early morning lions on th 3rd Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Saturday, 15 August 2020   Playing with the 150m markers Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Saturday, 15 August 2020 ALSO READ: KNP animals lap up first summer rain The next day the third was busy again with a few elephants travelling through.   The lovely 3rd Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Monday, 17 August 2020  More elephants were spotted on August 30, having some dinner in the late afternoon.   Sunday dinner for the big boys Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Sunday, 30 August 2020  Going September, giraffes were spotted checking out the course.   Beautiful animals Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Wednesday, 9 September 2020  On the morning of September 11, the hippos were at it again.   Having a fight this morning …who know about what Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Thursday, 10 September 2020  On September 17 the hard reality of nature was revealed when it was noticed that one of the bigger bulls killed another hippo and it was floating in the dam.   The hard fact of nature. One of the hippos in the dam was killed by one of the bigger bulls. Sad but part of nature and the circle of life Posted by Skukuza Golf Club on Thursday, 17 September 2020  Nature provided another magnificent sight on the course on the morning of September 27. A buck was found stripped bare of its meat by predators and laid out to display on the course.  Truth be told there is no other golf course quite like this one. Nature lovers, golf lovers, animals, this one caters for all. *All photos and videos by Skukuza Golf Club and Jean Rossouw.* 