Reading on paper is slower and deeper, causing readers to better remember what they saw or read. This is also why education centres from preschool to PhD still opt to use printed textbooks. – Geomares Reading on paper engages senses of touch, sight and smell, creating better understanding, memory and better engagement. – Geomares You can now read your newspaper with augmented reality, thanks to Lowvelder Newspaper teaming up with the free PixzAR App. This means that print content can be overlaid with interactive 2D/3D content including images, graphics, models and animation.  It’s only worth the paper it is printed on, right! Print publications command a genuine credibility. Advertising in printed publication is generally perceived as more valuable. During the Covid-19 pandemic the spread of fake news on Social media caused many people to turn back to their local paper. Lumen research shows  consumers are paying more attention to print ads that appear next to content about the Covid-19 outbreak. Printed publications target very specific people in very specific geographical areas. A printed publication is a physical item with a perceived value that can’t get lost in the matrix.   Lowvelder prints 20 000 copies every week, with a 60 000 average issue readership according to ROOTS-2019. Lowvelder also has a hybrid free newspaper called the Lowvelder Express. 20 000 copies are distributed every week to emerging markets in the Nsikazi region. Lowvelder is distributed weekly on Thursdays to: Nelspruit, White River, Barberton, Badplaas, Bushbuckridge, Hazyview, Jerusalem, Kruger National Park and surrounds, Lydenburg, Sabie, Graskop, Malalane, Shongwe, Tonga, Naas, Waterval Boven and Belfast. Reputable newspapers like Lowvelder are governed by the South African Press Council’s code of conduct and regularly audited for compliance in printing and distribution figures. These measures ensure that advertisers can rest assured that what they are promised, gets delivered.  Newspapers are recyclable, re-usable and create a lot of local jobs. Making it arguably the marketing method with the most benefits and one of the lowest carbon footprints. Because newspapers are expensive to print and distribute, news agencies take great care to ensure they reach their target audience. Considering that your ad will be printed and distributed thousands of times, the cost per ad is often a mere few cents. By advertising on a regular basis, you not only create greater awareness among possible customers, but also qualify for great discounts. Studies show that people are far less likely to multitask when reading on paper, giving print advertisers undivided attention. Better attention translates to better memory and higher return on investment for advertisers. Despite a global recession and immense economic pressure following the Covid-19 pandemic, local community newspapers are still holding strong and still fulfil a very import role in the communities they serve. There is still no viable alternative to sound community newspaper reporting. Just send us an email or contact Roche Esterhuizen on 013-754-1677 and we’ll get back to you with options that suit your business objectives and budget. We’ll also design your advertisement free of change. Further reading: Feel free to read more about some fascinating studies conducted on the superior effectiveness of advertising in printed media. 