Barberton Adventures (BA), in collaboration with Barberton Mines, hosted its first-ever Rimer’s Picnic in the Park at Rimer’s Creek last Saturday. The event is the brainchild of BA manager, Andrea Els and other likeminded people who thought it fitting that the townspeople showcase their array of talents. ALSO READ: Artz Africa needs your support The proceedings took place from 10:00 to 15:00 and proved to be an overwhelming success, according to Els. “BA was started by Barberton Mines to stimulate tourism in our region. We hope to create jobs within the tourism sector through this and other ventures,” she said. ALSO READ: Enjoy a crossover fusion style of music This ambitious plan hopes to bring the different sectors under the tourism umbrella together by providing guidance and assistance to smaller enterprises. “Barberton Mines has decided to create this enterprise, called BA, not only to stimulate tourism, but to create jobs in all avenues of this industry. ALSO READ:  Meet the new Emnotweni general manager “From the tour operators to food, we hope to see that this business will be self-sufficient and serve the community for years to come,” explained Els. Barberton has exported many talents that have gone on to hoist the flag high for locals. The picnic presents a unique opportunity for the community to get together in a bid to drive tourism. ALSO READ: The Farmer’s Market @ Sonpark pays it forward “The mines do not have an infinite lifespan and the next sector to stimulate the workforce, in our minds, is tourism. It is the fastest-growing sector and due to Barberton’s status as a World Heritage Site, we feel that stimulating this industry could possibly be the next big thing to create jobs.” The town has no shortage of talent in a number of fields and Els mentioned the impact they have had at national level. ALSO READ: Robbies get moving to raise funds “We are blessed to be in a community with talent beyond belief and we aim to give residents from all walks of life a platform to showcase their talents. “From music to singing, dancing and even selling vegetables at our farmers’ market, we will support our community in all aspects. Ray Phiri, Nukain Mabuza and so many more, even Bruce Fordyce, have their roots in Barberton,” she said. ALSO READ: Jock of the Bushveld Trails rehabilitated The picnic will be hosted on a monthly basis and will include different themes in the hope that local farmers and others will be able to generate a profit in the spirit of unity that BA strives for. “Our first event was a great success and we would like to extend a special thanks to Jacquie Britz and Rhinus Lots for their contribution,” Els concluded.