Five suspects arrested in Witbank yesterday are believed to have links to the Badplaas Police Station robbery that occurred on September 12. The men, aged between 31 and 47, are due to appear in the eMalahleni Magistrate’s Court after their arrest for the unlawful possession of four firearms and ammunition. According to a statement released by police, the suspects may have had a hand in a number of armed robberies in the province, including the Badplaas Police Station robbery during which they made off with three firearms including an R5 rifle, two pistols and ammunition.  ALSO READ: Stonehenge murder accused in court again The police spokesperson, Col Donald Mdhluli, said, “Last Thursday, police followed up on information that led them to a farm in the Calcutta area near Hazyview where one suspect was found hiding. “They also searched a white Ford Ranger on the scene and discovered a firearm with its serial number filed off, before arresting the suspect.” Mdhluli said two more suspects were tracked to Mkhuhlu near Hazyview and KaNyamazane, while a third was arrested at Elukwatini near eManzana (Badplaas).  ALSO READ: Farmworker drowns in dam in Kiepersol They were found in possession of three firearms and one rifle, bringing the number of firearms seized by the police to four. “The team also seized cash, including foreign currency, airtime vouchers and other items believed to have been stolen during the robbery. “A preliminary investigation has since revealed that some of the confiscated firearms belonged to the state and are believed to have been stolen during the police station robbery last month,” he said. ALSO READ: Accused in Komatipoort farm murder to appear in High Court on November 12 Mdhluli added that the suspects are purported to have been involved in a supermarket robbery in Elukwatini on October 15, during which 14 men were involved. The four suspects who were arrested last week appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Monday and have been remanded in custody. They will appear in the Carolina Magistrate’s Court on Friday on a business robbery charges.   ALSO READ: KaNyamazane Police Station closed after positive Covid-19 case The three suspects arrested yesterday will be appearing in the eMalahleni Magistrate’s Court tomorrow and the remaining two will be appearing in the Eerstehoek Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Mdhluli said the possibility of linking the suspects to other crimes cannot be ruled out by the SAPS at this stage. “The police management in the province has welcomed this major breakthrough that was made which saw a total of nine out of the 14 suspects being arrested,” he concluded.