The coastline is dotted with some hidden gems of towns and resorts which continue to live up to earned glowing reputations. Kwazulu-Natal as well the Eastern Cape are both filled with seaside cities and towns which are worth exposing.  Durban (eThekwini in Zulu) is South Africa’s third largest city and one of its leading vacation destinations, with many top attractions. It’s also a haven for surfers. Long beaches lapped by the warm Indian Ocean, a mild subtropical climate and excellent infrastructure lure tourists in their millions. Durban also offers unparalleled cultural tourism which attracts many to learn about the Zulu kingdom and rich Indian heritage in this city. In Durban, you can attractions such as the Inanda Heritage Trail, Golden Mile, Umgeni River Bird Park, Sun Coast Casino and Entertainment World and Moses Mabhida Stadium. Visiting these sites will definitely leave you with memories to last you a lifetime. All these attractions in Durban are in close proximity to luxury and affordable hotels, guest houses, B&Bs and self-catering establishments. KwaZulu-Natal has a number of attractive seaside locations worth knowing and visiting. These include: Amanzimtoti is a coastal town just south of Durban. The town is well known for its warm climate and numerous beaches, and is a popular tourist destination, particularly with surfers, and the annual sardine run attracts many to the beaches in Toti, as it is affectionately called by the locals. Amanzimtoti is home to a wide variety of wildlife, including Cape clawless otters, blue duiker and spotted ground-thrush. Vervet monkeys are common and can be seen throughout the suburban parts of the town and in the nature reserves. Fine dining restaurants, safe and secure beaches with plenty of activities, affordable accommodation as well as the warm hospitality of the locals makes Amanzimtoti a tourism jewel. Most of the wildlife can be found along the Amanzimtoti River or in the coastal dune vegetation. Ballito is about 40 kilometres north of Durban. This small serene resort town enjoys a reputation for its warm sub-tropical east coast climate. Dolphins are common on this stretch of the North Coast shoreline, hence the nickname Dolphin Coast. Ballito, the heart of the Dolphin Coast lies nestled between rippling fields of KwaZulu-Natal’s famous Green Gold and is flanked to the east by golden beaches with trending events & activities, food, businesses, shopping & services. In Ballito, you are guaranteed luxury accommodation with no reservation costs and at great rates. Margate is a seaside resort town on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast, about 20 kilometres southwest of Port Shepstone. Margate boasts with beautiful and immaculate beaches including a blue flag beach. The warm Indian Ocean flows across this coastline, providing it with an abundance of tropical fish and coral reefs. Vast shoals of game fish and large groups of sharks can be found around diving sites such as Protea Banks. Scuba diving, snorkelling and diving is a must in Margate. Margate has immaculate beaches with warm waters, plenty of sunshine and an endless-summer vibe. If you’re an avid fisherman, surfer or just someone that loves glorious beaches, coastal forests, magnificent coral reefs and endless sunny days, then the South coast is the place for you. Margate is busiest during school and public holidays when inland residents travel to the coast, so make sure you make your holiday bookings well in advance. If you’re planning a vacation to Margate, we recommend booking your accommodation early. Umhlanga which means ‘place of reeds’ in Zulu is an affluent residential, commercial and resort town north of Durban on the coast of KwaZulu-Natal. Umhlanga was built around the idea of fun in the sun. Here you can explore the beautiful coastline or head to the ocean for deep-sea fishing, whale and dolphin watching, scuba diving and surfing. As the sun begins to set, take a beachfront walk on the iconic beachfront promenade. In Umhlanga, you can spend your day on one of the sun-kissed beaches and then dress up and spend the evening at one of the town’s popular eating spots. Why not end off the perfect day in Umhlanga by taking the opportunity to enjoy a night or more at a luxury hotel, guest house, B&B. Beyond the beaches, Umhlanga is all about shopping and entertainment. The Gateway Theatre of Shopping has over 400 stores and 70 eateries. This giant mall is one of the best shopping experiences on the continent from high-end fashion to independent boutiques. You have the opportunity to choose from a wide range of beauty spas for relaxation moments as well.  Port Elizabeth or Nelson Mandela Bay often known by its initials PE and colloquially as “The Friendly City” or “The Windy City”, is a major seaport city. PE boasts of spectacular beaches and is a superb value-for-money holiday base. Port Elizabeth (PE) is not only home to stunning beaches, interesting museums and award-winning wildlife destinations, but also some of the friendliest people in the country. The city is an outdoor lover’s paradise, so don’t miss out on boat cruises, scuba diving, and a visit to the Seaview Predator Park. Port Elizabeth has earned its tourism reputation by developing luxury and world class hotels, guest houses, B&Bs and self-catering establishments. PE is surrounded by attractive seaside locations worth knowing and visiting. These include: Port Alfred is a relatively small town of about 20,000 inhabitants which attracts many tourists and holiday makers. The town lies on the Kowie River which flows directly into the Indian Ocean. The pretty small boat harbour is a feature of the town and South Africans that holiday here make use of the harbour to launch their own boats. During the summer season the Kowie River hums to the sounds of small boats filled with families riding up the river to enjoy water-skiing, wake-boarding or just a pleasant cruise. For walking, surfing or sand-boarding the best beach is East Beach with its amazing waves and huge sand dunes. Port Alfred offers many guest houses, B&Bs and self-catering establishments. Self-catering is an easy option with plenty of local amenities such as large Spar supermarket, pharmacies, Woolworths and other major retailers. The town also hosts major sporting events such as the Inter-Schools Rowing Championships and the University Rowing Championships. Both take place annually and attract huge numbers of people over different weekends. Port Alfred also offers visitors access to a dive school and a number of boats offering deep-sea fishing charters. Just 25km further down the R72 from Port Alfred, heading towards Port Elizabeth, is another pretty seaside town called Kenton-on-Sea. Kenton is bordered on two sides by two rivers – the Kariega River and Bushman’s River. Between Bushman’s River mouth and Middle Beach is where the popular Carriage rock is located, the perfect backdrop for some amazing photos. The beaches at Kenton-on-Sea are a mix of wonderful sheltered bays and long sandy beaches. The beach at Shelly Bay is a real gem and a great family spot to enjoy a day out with the kids. The rocks around the bay almost form an amphitheatre and create a perfect windbreak for those occasional windy days along the Eastern Cape. Mermaid’s Pool is also a good spot and a great place to get some family seaside photos. The rock formations along the beaches here are stunning. The whole family can enjoy hiring canoes and taking a trip up the Bushman’s River. With the convenience of hiring canoes at Kenton Marina. The town is in close proximity to both the Kariega Game Reserve and Sibuya Game Reserve where visitors have the opportunity to experience seeing the Big 5. You don’t need to worry about affordable and luxury accommodation as Kenton-on-Sea has developed many guest houses, B&Bs and self-catering establishments. East London is a picturesque port city in the Amatola region of the Eastern Cape. The city’s architecture perfectly reflects its progression. This small resort town sits as the gateway to South Africa’s spectacular Wild Coast on the estuary of the Buffalo River where it flows to the Indian Ocean. The beaches here are some of the finest in the world and a few, like Nahoon Reef, are a surfer’s paradise and host to international surfing competitions. The beach, vibrant nightlife, local cuisine and cultural activities all add to the natural beauty of this town. A good night of rest can be enjoyed at many of the East London hotels, guest houses, B&Bs and self-catering establishments.  Jeffreys Bay, or “J–Bay” as it is known to the locals, brings to mind surfing, sunshine and beautiful beaches. The town is situated just off the N2 Highway, about 75 km southwest of Port Elizabeth. Doesn’t matter what the size of your budget is, there are a vast variety of amazing places to visit and things you can do. This includes adventures, day tours, sandboarding, surf lessons, kayaking, kloofing, hiking, paintball, horse riding, waterpark and much more. When it comes to accommodation, Jeffreys Bay offers top of the range hotels, bed and breakfasts and self-catering establishments. While the list of seaside destinations is not conclusive, it’s clear to see that you are not short of options when it comes to choosing your next travel destination. You can count on Afristay to be your reliable travel partner as you plan, choose and book your destinations and accommodation.