Strokes are one of the leading causes of disability. Letlhogonolo Modise, founder of Letlhogonolo Modise’s Foundation, a young stroke survivor herself, started this non-profit organisation in order to assist stroke survivors and caregivers with support services. Letlhogonolo Modise’s Foundation provides a unique, experience for privileged and underprivileged stroke survivors. It provides a platform of wellness programmes that are designed to address a person’s physical, cognitive, social and emotional well-being. Nkomazi’s Nelisiwe Ngomane (23) suffered a stroke on May 25, 2016. Ngomane says, “I went to sleep normally, but awoke to something being wrong. I was unable to move my right side and couldn’t speak as my mouth was a bit twisted. My family and I were confused as to what was happening. They rushed me to Tonga Hospital where I was referred to another hospital. On our way there I started regaining my strength. However, the doctor at the new hospital requested I stay the night as they were struggling to pinpoint what had happened to me.” Eventually, doctors told her she had had a stroke. It was quite a confusing time for Ngomane, her family and even the medical staff as they understood that strokes only affected older people. “I was in a wheelchair for months and started to give up on life. ALSO READ: Local boy receives the gift of sight I attended physio and saw a psychologist, but I was still struggling with the situation,” she says. Towards the end of that year, Ngomane regained her balance and the wheelchair was no longer needed. She says she was watching TV and stumbled upon a show where they were talking about exactly what she had gone through. She jotted down a number and joined the WhatsApp group where she felt safe to tell her story. Shortly after joining this group, she made a friend who would check up on her regularly.  This person made sure she understood everything and provided support where needed. Her name is Letlhogonolo. She assists all young stroke survivors across South Africa to understand that life does not end after a stroke. Ngomane wanted to go back and finish her studies after her stroke, but could not even remember her student number. This proved to be a huge problem as it was mid-pandemic so the university was not seeing students. Letlhogonolo’s foundation decided to assist her in getting her student number by sending her a link and an email address and eventually succeeded in helping her to apply, just in the nick of time.  Ngomane is now in her third year of nature conservation. She is grateful to the Letlhogonolo Modise’s Foundation for its help in reaching her dreams. For additional support from the Letlhogonolo Modise’s Foundation, visit its Facebook page here. Alternatively, you can send them a Whatsapp. ALSO READ: SPCA’s overall food levels on a measly 5%