A former police officer, Sgt Lerato Mokoena (43) and her co-accused, Mduduzi Ndlovu (26), were convicted in the Mpumalanga High Court in Nelspruit, for the 2017 murder of Sgt Vusi Dlamini. Details from the trial revealed that Mokoena, who was married to Dlamini at the the time of his death, was instrumental in his execution. According to the Mpumalanga police spokesperson, Brig Leonard Hlathi, Mokoena and Dlamini were jogging at the time of his death. ALSO READ: Matsulu woman killed for failing to pay mashonisa “Meanwhile, Ndlovu followed the couple in Mokoena’s vehicle. He deliberately ran over Dlamini, which resulted in his death. “The vehicle suffered extensive damage and could not be moved from the scene. This forced Ndlovu to abandon it and flee the scene on foot,” Hlathi said. Mokoena was left at the scene with Dlamini’s lifeless body. He was certified dead by police and emergency medical personnel who responded to the scene. Hlathi said that a manhunt was launched after police determined that Ndlovu was driving the vehicle. He handed himself over to the police. ALSO READ: The Nelspruit police need your help to identify accident victim Investigations into the incident revealed that Mokoena and Ndlovu had conspired to killing Dlamini and make it appear like a road accident. “Ndlovu finally confessed to the police in detail about the events leading to her husband’s death. She was arrested and charged with conspiracy to commit murder,” Hlathi continued. She was granted bail while Ndlovu remained in custody until his conviction. Mokoena’s bail was revoked after the pair were found guilty. ALSO READ: Elvis Mulimi and Joseph Nyalunga granted postponement in the Nelspruit Regional Court The two are expected back in court again on January 14 next year for sentencing. “The police management was delighted with the conviction and applauded the relentless efforts of the members involved in this case. “Mokoena’s actions are contrary to the expectations placed on police who are not supposed to bring the SAPS into disrepute. The actions of Mokoena are condemned in the strongest possible terms,” Hlathi concluded.