BARBERTON – At a press conference held in Johannesburg last week, Mashaba addressed the media regarding the possibility of retrieving the remains of three workers entombed underground after the tragedy. In attendance were Harry Mazibuko, Ruth Nkosi and Elmon Mnisi, who shared their grief at government’s apparent resistance to allowing rescue operations to continue. Nkosi represented Solomon Nyirenda’s ailing mother who could not make the journey.  She said, “As a family we are very hurt. There is no one helping us. “We are waiting on government to help and we are amazed that no help is forthcoming for us as South African citizens. The children keep asking where their parents are.” Harry Mazibuko took to the podium in an impassioned plea for answers from the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy and government to provide coherent answers as to the reasons the container has been deemed irretrievable. ALSO READ: Zoo on the outskirts of Mbombela catches national news’ attention “We have been waiting for three years for closure for the affected families. We started our protest on April 30, just before Workers Day. This is a celebration we cannot continue until our colleagues, Solomon Nyirenda, Yvonne Mnisi and Pretty Nkambule are brought to the surface,” he said. Rescue efforts were abandoned subsequent to the shaft collapse, with the mine management citing high costs. Mazibuko contended that a similar operation had been undertaken in Chile, with notable South African companies playing a prominent role in rescue efforts there. “The miners in Chile were trapped 688 metres underground. Our colleagues are less than 75 metres underground. Interested parties have come to the fore express an interest in purchasing the mine with the proviso that former worker would be employed and new rescue efforts initiated. Mazibuko lamented DMRE’s apparent reluctance to assist, saying that the mine was under business rescue and that the department and government had failed the former mine employees. “We have a 1 000 questions, with no adequate responses. Is this how we build South Africa together? Is this how we fight unemployment together?” he asked. He welcomed Mashaba’s intervention, adding, “We had unions and politicians giving us long speeches on the Lily Mine disaster each year. This intervention by ActionSA is working for us. We elected our government, but we will not re-elect them”. Mashaba said, “The DMRE’s defence of the NPA is obscene. It has been more than four years since the mine collapse and three years since the DMRE report recommended the prosecution of mine management. “Why the DMRE feels it necessary to defend the NPA in this matter is beyond reason.” He continued, “The Chief Inspector of Mines again sited a figure of R100 million to retrieve the container in the interview. Aside from the fact that this would contradict the DMRE’s report and suggest the container is indeed retrievable, our findings have revealed that no expert study has taken place that could possibly have determined such a costing.” The DMRE’s media liaison officer, Nathi Shabangu, contradicted Mashaba’s assertions and contended that the department had been in talks with the affected families. “Since the incident, the department has been involved in trying to find all means to retrieve the container. An investigation was done and a report submitted that is contrary to what Mashaba said. “The department is working hand in hand with the business rescue practitioners and the affected families, and are currently engaging with them. There are a number of legal challenges that are hampering the process, but once these are resolved and the mine is operational, we will find ways to retrieve the container,” he said. ALSO READ: Matsulu gogo attributes a full life to respect