With a comfortable mattress laid thick and blankets stacked high on the deck, young presenters Cherize (13) and Jade Coetzer (8) spent an evening at the Ubhetyan O Africa game lodge as a part of Rhino Month in September. With them was also Kaylin van der Merwe (17), an editor and scriptwriter who was there to document the experience.Deon Cornelius, owner of the lodge, decided to host an event called “Sleeping with the rhinos” in an effort to raise funds for private rhino owners, like himself, to use for conservation efforts. ALSO READ: Save the date for Pro-Life’s 9th birthday bash “This event was also held to help build awareness and to show people that it is possible to share this earth with our wildlife without violence,” said Kim Coetzer, the young presenters’ mother. The trio of girls form part of Mpumalanga Leopard Conservation, a non-profit organisation with subdivision Snarebusters that is involved in the rescue, rehabilitation and release of animals. The two presenters go by the name The Bush Angels. Intrigued by the event and wanting to help, Mpumalanga Leopard Conservation brought in its young trio to share their experience. They produce documentaries and advertisements using children and teens to help with the filming, scriptwriting and presenting. They are also allowed to take part in the snare busting. According to Kim, Cornelius and his employees had worked with Bryan Vermaak of the Mpumalanga Leopard Conservation before, but they were pleasantly surprised to find that they were going to be working with such young girls. ALSO READ: Open the throttle to first-class rock “Though this was meant to be serious work for everyone, the girls were able to show them that even in serious times there will still always be something to smile about. That is why Mpumalanga Leopard Conservation involves our youth. “They see the world as it is, they are aware of the toxicity on our earth, but are not dulled by it. It is important that not just our children, but everyone else is able to see the beauty that still surrounds us without shutting off from the bad and losing sight of what is important.”