Public institutions are encouraged to engage in beneficial partnerships with the private sector in an effort to ensure that the college students are holistically developed and moulded, not only for the world of work, but also for responsible citizenship. This therefore means that the skills alone are not sufficient if the social element is not enhanced too. The college has a good relationship with Absa and that was demonstrated when Absa donated personal protective equipment (PPE) aimed at combating the spread of Covid-19. On September 16 Ehlanzeni TVET College received donations from Absa at an occasion that took place at the Nelspruit Campus. The campus manager, CL Cronje warmly welcomed the attendees whom he thanked for observing social distancing protocols. In his welcoming remarks Cronje recognised the presence of the Absa delegation led by Mr Nkosi and the college delegation led by the recently appointed principal, EM Mbuyane. Nkosi briefly explained purpose of the event and further indicated that Absa has made it its culture to make a social contribution to its clients throughout the country. The PPE donation to the college is consistent with the bank’s social responsibility commitment. Nkosi also highlighted a number of activities wherein Absa is involved in resonance with its social responsibility culture, these included but not necessarily limited to helping those who were unable to pay their house bonds and related bills. In this instance, Nkosi mentioned that since they are in partnership with the college, they believed that the donation will go a long way in fighting Covid-19. In accepting the donation from Absa, Mbuyane expressed his gratitude for the generous gesture shown by the bank in donating the highly valued personal protective equipment. He described the donation as perfectly timed as it came at a time when complacency was beginning to creep in, when most are beginning to think that Covid-19 is over. Mbuyane further pleaded with all the beneficiaries, the students and staff to utilise the noble gifts appropriately. He further gave Absa the assurance that the equipment will never be traded for anything, but used to save the lives of the Ehlanzeni’s community in line with its noble intent. In his closing remarks the deputy principal of academics, FHJ Siboza, welcomed the donation and thanked Absa for staying true to the beneficial public-private partnership existing between the two institutions. Siboza described the donation as “an investment beyond literal investment”.   