In a statement and a separate open letter to the minister of tourism, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, the DA shadow minister of tourism, Manny de Freitas, questioned the published list of countries. The DA considers it in its current form to be “utterly ridiculous”. The FF Plus echoed this by calling it “absurd with no logic”. De Freitas gave an example, “Tourists who have tested negative for Covid-19 and have downloaded government’s tracing app should not be considered a health risk and be discriminated against because they happen to be of a certain nationality or travelling from a certain country.” He said if all Covid-19 safety protocols are followed in places like airports, restaurants and hotels, and on aircraft, it should control the risk of a second wave. Government announced that it will use its own level of coronavirus risk to determine countries considered high, medium and low risk. Following this statement, De Freitas said the DA calls for the data used to determine the countries on the high-risk list be made public. Spokesperson for tourism of the FF Plus, Michal Groenewald, used the Maldives (one of the high-risk countries) as another example. ALSO READ: Plaaslike pastoor lei gebedsaksie vir vreedsaamheid “There are just over 11 500 cases confirmed (SA recorded 10 per cent of that on a daily basis) in the Maldives, of which 9 364 people already recovered, and a total of 34 deaths. That is even fewer than what SA recorded on October 4 (total of 38 deaths). “The Maldives must rather put a regulation for South Africans not to enter the Maldives and not the other way around.” Collen Sedibe, leader of the EFF in Mpumalanga, said firstly that it must be noted that “as the EFF we never supported the easing of the lockdown from the onset, precisely because the statistics and all information around Covid-19 are not realistic and accurate. People are still getting infected in numbers, even today, and more are dying due to the deadly pandemic”. However, with the situation in the country as is, he continued, and said, “It is in the public domain that the countries that have been listed as high risk are all well known for having the highest number of infections in the world, for example the USA and UK inter-alia”. Where the data is concerned, Sedibe said he thinks the procedure is clear. “It is none other than the number of infected people and those who died due to Covid-19 in those countries. I don’t know of any other hidden procedure they can disclose, but I think there is nothing to hide about this deadly pandemic.” ALSO READ: Construction to commence between Mozambique’s Moamba Interchange and Matola Groenewald disagreed. “With no doubt by not disclosing the criteria or procedure that was used or followed to determine the list, they are not transparent, and the logical assumption will be that they are trying to hide information.” On one point De Freitas, Sedibe and Groenewald all agreed – the distinction being made between high-skill individuals, investors, sports people and diplomats who are allowed to cross high-risk borders versus leisure travellers who are not.De Freitas questioned this part of legislation and said it was irrational that leisure travellers from SA’s biggest markets will not be permitted to enter the country’s borders. “Why are only high-skill individuals, investors, sports people and diplomats permitted entrance? Are they magically immune to Covid-19 and tourists not?” Sedibe supports these select groups being allowed entry, but said, “I don’t agree with the exclusion of tourists. I strongly feel that now that the economy has opened, let tourism as one major economic thrust be opened as well. What is key is to put strict measures in place to ensure compliance with the Covid-19 precautions in order to fight the spread of the virus”. Groenewald said the FF Plus is on record to say the lockdown must be ended with immediate effect. “It served its purpose, which was to get the necessary medical services in place for the pandemic and to slow the infection rate. Those objectives have been reached and every day the lockdown drags on is to the detriment of SA citizens. ALSO READ: Bail verdict for ANC rape accused out next week “Tourism is one of the sectors that has the potential to create job opportunities for youth where there is a great number of unemployment, and more than 15 per cent of households that have no income. “The ANC government must make it a priority to protect this sector, but all it has done is to put tourism under even more strain.” With the health regulations currently in place for travellers (a negative Covid-19 test no older than 72 hours), Groenewald said, “It would make more sense to rather open the borders for as many countries as possible”. De Freitas went as far as calling Kubayi-Ngubane the Minister of No Tourism and said her statements, especially when it comes to reasons people visit tourist destinations, showed that she is out of touch with the industry she represents. Sedibe made mention of the blows the industry has taken, but believes that not all hope is lost. “Mpumalanga is number three in terms of tourism attractions in South Africa and has been dealt a fatal blow by the pandemic. It also contributes three per cent of employment in the province, but all is not lost. Everything will go back to normal with time, though we will still experience some irreparable damage in some sectors of the economy, especially the job losses.” Find the full list of red-listed countries on the Department of Home Affairs’ website.