For the majority of musicians, Covid-19 has left the music scene nothing short of devastated, but not the multifaceted former Lowvelder, Larah Eksteen. With more than 18 years’ experience in the entertainment industry, she decided to literally flip the script and record an eight-track gem during lockdown 2020. “I was stuck in Cape Town during lockdown after working on a freelance project for Afrokaans Film and Television since January, with no gigs in sight. I decided to accept what I could not change and embrace the opportunity to write new music.” Her album “Anywhere” is available on Bandcamp and Apple Music. Eksteen is a former Lowvelder who was born in Mbombela and attended White River Primary School. “I took part in the Lowveld Eisteddfod every year from grade one up until grade seven,” she said. “My mother, Noleen, used to manage the Lowveld Youth Orchestra of which I was a member until grade 12. It was such a lovely regional community initiative; we had orchestra members from Sabie, Graskop and Barberton attending and taking part. I was also the lead member of a string quartet called the Sonore Ensemble.” During her high school years, she was part of the Streek Jeugsimfonie-orkes. “In my spare time, my guitarist friend, Annelet Prinsloo and I busked on the streets of Mbombela, singing and playing songs by Nirvana and Koos Kombuis for pocket money,” she recalled. In 2006, she also performed in an all-girl electric string quartet called Electro-Muse at Innibos. Larah has also performed at the opening of the Cape Town International Convention Centre, at three Kirstenbosch Summer Concerts, for Sir Elton John and Naspers, recorded several acclaimed albums with artists like Fokofpolisiekar (“Swanegesang”), Dear Reader (“Replace Why with Funny”), Casette, Arno Carstens and Paul Ressel from Lark. Larah started playing the violin at the age of three, graduated with two first instruments, performed abroad, studied music production in London, composed and produced music for film and television and created platforms for young and upcoming string players. She is South Africa’s first multiskilled singer-violinist, pianist, music producer and continues to compose for contemporary, electronic, world and Afropolitan genres. She has performed on seven live episodes of IdolsSA alongside winners Noma Khumalo, Karabo Mogane and South African favourites such as Somizi Mhlongo, Judith Sephuma, J’Something (MiCasa), Donald Moatshe and DJ Tira.