On October 24, another peaceful Move ONE Million protest will take place all across South Africa. According to a press release by the movement, it has been approximately 47 days since supporters from across the globe united against a failed system on September 5. In the days that followed, the movement was not only registered as a non-profit company, but it also appointed esteemed businessman, Derek Holmes as its new CEO. As a result of the newfound structures that were put in place, complete with a vision and mission statement, it is now readily equipped to build structures at ground level to propel it forward and affect the desired change in the country. ALSO READ: South Africans must steer clear of illegal prepaid vouchers, says Eskom “Facebook is a medium that will only be able to get us to a certain point. If, however, we are serious about driving a new vehicle for change in South Africa, we have to realise that this happens on the ground. “We are incredibly grateful for the support we have received and for the team that is currently in place. We look forward to growing our team and diversification within our ranks and to build a system based on honesty, integrity, consequence, accountability and good governance,” said Jarette Petzer, Move ONE Million founder. “As a people, we can no longer allow ourselves to be used as pawns to serve the interests of those who are completely disconnected from the realities that most of the country faces. We, the people, must begin to come to grips with the fact that we’re on our own. If we fail to unite and push back against attempts by political opportunists to racially polarise us, we shall all go down irrecoverably,” stated the press release. “Move ONE Million is not singularly focused, but understands and is addressing the umbrella of critical issues that is devastating our country. It stands alone as an organisation that has implemented a multi-level leadership structure both locally and internationally. These will provide the focus, leadership, continuity and transparency required to address the critical challenges our country is facing,” said Holmes. ALSO READ: Well-known attorney dies after being attacked near White River “The truth is that nobody but us will save South Africa. We, the people, are faced with two choices; we either stand divided and fall, or we find a way to come together and challenge the system as a united front, despite our differences. “Get involved and activate your family and friends. ‘Liking’ posts on social media and making passing comments is just not enough anymore. Together we can, and together we must fight for change,” concluded the press release.