Maintaining a healthy lifestyle is essential. This means stocking up on the freshest vegetables, quality meat and dairy items. Unfortunately, it can be costly and time consuming to search the shelves for farm fresh, wholesome food items. With The Farmers Box  you can bring fresh produce from the farm to your family.  “Our passion has always been to support local, and by doing so, encouraging the movement of local is lekker, ” says Wayne Blake from The Farmers Box.   Many households are opting for locally grown produce that is not only good for the environment, but great for their health. Locally grown gives new meaning to the word “fresh” as it reaches your table quicker, as oppose to produce coming from other parts of the country. Thus, locally grown or sourced produce contains more vitamins and nutrients as the produce is at its peak state.   The Farmers Box is proud to supply locally produced and sourced produce to families in the Lowveld. You are guaranteed of pure, good and wholesome products as there is no middleman or retail chains involved in the process.  Born from the necessity of adding to the value of family time, The Farmers Box delivers specially packed boxes and hampers directly to your door. Ensuring the health of your family has never been easier. Their convenient online shop has a variety of Lowveld approved food items that is truly mouth-watering. All that’s left to do is cook and enjoy  The Farmers Box services the areas of White River, Nelspruit and Hazyview.  With The Farmers Box you can shop all your locally sourced products in the comfort of your home. Their online ordering platform ensures ease of use and they deliver your perfectly packed box right to your doorstep.  Ordering from The Farmers Box is easy. 1. Simply visit their online shop to build your box. 2. Choose from a wide variety of seasonal farm vegetables, meats, cheese, eggs, locally produced preserves and more.3. Get your delivery within 48 hours right to your doorstep for free. Your specially packed box and hampers are delivered by hand by The Farmers Box family. You can also select a pre-packed box. Each box is perfectly packed and portioned, and personally checked by the staff. There is no way to substitute standards!        