PCA secretary, Surika van der Merwe said it received an “urgent call” from an organisation in Hoopstad, requesting assistance for the farming communities in Boshoff and Hertzogville. “The veld fires were enormous and have engulfed almost 180 000 hectares of land, destroying everything in their path,” said Van der Merwe. She said while PCA was formed to help children, its mandate requires it to respond immediately and without prejudice during a declared disaster, no matter if children or adults have been affected. ALSO READ: Dam levels in the province continue to drop despite recent rainfall Van der Merwe said they drove to the Free State with 2,7 tonnes of non-perishable food and a large quantity of OTC medicines, to bring relief to the suffering farmers. “We were told around 1 800 livestock burned to death and that homes, stores and wheat fields were destroyed,” said Van der Merwe. ALSO READ: Kruger employees in court after found with rhino horns Hertzogville Farmers’ Union head, Gys Olivier told PCA that of the 180 000 hectares included 130 large commercial farms and several smaller farms. Olivier had said that around 400 farmers had been affected by the fires. “I asked a farmer in his mid-thirties how he was doing and if he was also affected by the fire and his eyes welled up with tears and he choked up to the extent that he could only turn around and walk away,” said Van der Merwe. “It turned out that he lost absolutely everything on his farm, including all his equipment and buildings,” she said. “His story represents many farmers in the disaster area. “We are very proud that we were asked for help and are very grateful to all the people and organisations that donated so generously,” said Van der Merwe. ALSO READ: Quota rules stop Sunbirds’ flight to final “This is only the beginning of the farmers fight for survival and we are adamant that we will do anything and everything possible to assist them, their families and the thousands of their staff that are dependent on them.” PCA is aiming to return to the devastated farms every three weeks, with food and any other items they may need. For more information about making donations to help the Free State farmers visit its Facebook page Pediatric Care Africa or its website www.pediatriccareafrica.org. One can also call the NGO on 062-229-5663 or email them at info@pediatriccareafrica.org.