Dodgy land deals dating back to 2011 that cost the Mpumalanga Department of Human Settlements millions of rand, has led to a warrant of arrest being issued and executed for former state security minister, Bongani Bongo, and 10 others, including his brother, Sipho, earlier this week. Bongo and 10 others implicated in the dubious deals are under investigation by the Serious Corruption Investigation Unit and will face charges of fraud, corruption, theft, money laundering and contravening the Public Finance Management Act. ALSO READ: More arrests in Badplaas Police Station robbery Robert Burwise, Patrick Donald Chirwa, Harrington Sizwakhendaba Dhlamini, Blessing Mduduzi Singwane, David Boy Dube, Sipho Joel Bongo, Vusi Willem Magagula, Bongani Louis Henry Sibiya, Elmon Lawrence Mdaka and Sibongile Mercy Mdaka reported to the DPCI investigating team on Tuesday, along with four companies, and were charged on 69 counts in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. ALSO READ: The IEC stays the course ahead of next year’s Local Government Elections The shady deals purportedly netted the suspects almost R124 million and allegedly involved the sale of the 414-hectare Rietspruit Farm in Ermelo, a 70-hectare farm in Malalane and the 74,2-hectare farm in Naauwpoort, eMalahleni. The group allegedly colluded to sell the farms back to municipalities at highly inflated prices. Rietspruit Farm, valued at R11 million, was sold to the department for R36,4 million, while the Malalane farm was worth R44 million and sold for R50 million. Naauwpoort was worth R2,1 million and sold for R37,5 million. Rietspruit Farm was earmarked for developing a township that would be named Masakhane, even though the Msukaligwa Local Municipality owned a farm that could have been used for the purpose. ALSO READ: SAPS call on public to aid in search for robbery suspects This project never got off the ground and the department suffered millions in losses. According to the Hawks spokesperson, Lt Col Philani Nkwalase, department insiders blew the whistle on the corrupt activities, prompting the investigation. “The combined value of the three farms was approximately R70 million, but as a result of alleged collusion by the arrested suspects, the Mpumalanga Department of Human Settlements suffered a loss of just under R124 million,” he said. ALSO READ: Kruger employees in court after found with rhino horns Nkwalase added that the monies were allegedly siphoned off through five accounts. “An intricate paper trail was created, including applications by the municipalities, valuation reports and internal correspondence in order to justify the deals. They appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday.” Bongo and his brother were charged with money laundering and  released on R10 000 bail each. The pair were given a provisional court date of March 4 next year and the prosecution alluded that more charges may be added. ALSO READ: Covid-19: Mpumalanga’s positive cases as of October 28 In an interview after his release, Bongo labelled the charges as an act to discredit him. “The charges say that I have indirectly benefited by driving my brother’s car. The court is saying it is a schedule one offence. “I was in the employ of the department as a legal adviser, there was no wrongdoing by the department. “I think the then HOD acted above board. I found the charges to be disturbing and malicious and meant to discredit me, but I am aware that this sequence of arrests and the abuse of state resources is being done for selfish political gain,” he said