Appel was set to play at 19:00 on Saturday evening however; people had already started crowding the venue from around 16:00 that afternoon to make sure they had the perfect seat to watch the singer perform. One of the organisers of the event, Maryna Steenberg, said she had already sold out the tickets for the show on Thursday. “It was an amazing turnout and we were very happy with the support we received,” said Steenberg. ALSO READ: Move ONE Million calls for SA to unite once again “Although we had sold out the tickets on Thursday, there were still some people who came to get tickets at the gate,” she said. “We had around 350 people attending. We could not have more due to Covid regulations, but if the lockdown rules were not in place, we would have had double the amount of people coming to the show,” said Steenberg. ALSO READ: Letlhogonolo Modise’s Foundation assists young Nkomazi stroke survivor Appel said, “It was an unbelievable privilege to play in White River again. “The community always accepts you with open arms, they’re really caring people. I enjoy seeing how people still dance in Afrikaans. There is unity there. “Maryna and her team were really hospitable in their welcoming and we immediately felt like family.” Appel added that he was “unbelievably sad about Gerrit Stander”, the White River resident who was killed on his small holding “so soon after the performance”. ALSO READ: Save the date for Pro-Life’s 9th birthday bash “My heart goes out to the family and I pray that the Lord holds His hands of healing over them.” Steenberg said the show was quite emotional as Appel was “very outspoken” when it came to farm murders and attacks. ALSO READ: Covid-19: Mpumalanga’s active cases stand at 656 “He ended the performance with the song Die Gelofte which is a very emotional song for Afrikaners. People really responded well.” Steenberg said people were happy to get out and socialise. “People were happy to let loose a little and and I think everyone had fun,” she said.