The Drawing Guild held its first exhibit, Degrees of Realism, between October 22 and October 24 with scores of people flocking to see art works by well-known and award-winning artists from across the country. ALSO READ: The countdown to the fourth Annual Mbombela Jazz Festival has started  The Drawing Guild was formed earlier this year by White River pastel- and coloured-pencil artist Henriëtte van Staden and includes other graphite, pastel and pencil artists from Cape Town and Hoedspruit to the Eastern Cape. ALSO READ: Community Can Challenge completes 16th food drop-off Van Staden said that while there are many pastel and pencil-art societies popping up across the globe, there is still a need to promote the medium as many galleries still view these artworks as a “lesser medium”. The exhibit’s opening night saw many art-lovers come to view some of the incredible artwork on display – from the likes of Coleen Williams, Fiona Goldthorpe, Lesley Martyn, Lindy Roux, Patrick O’Brian, Pieter van der Merwe, Stephanie Mollett, Warren Cary and, of course, Van Staden. ALSO SEE: GALLERY: Mbombela residents take to the streets to protest farm murders All the artists of The Drawing Guild either use graphite, pastel or coloured pencils as their medium, creating spectacular works of wild dogs, vultures, the human form, autumn leaves and portraits so realistic they appear to be a photograph at first glance. ALSO READ: Penryn entrepreneurs sell online A visitor of the exhibit Phumlile Nkosi said the art was “incredible”. “All of these art pieces are so different, but all so beautiful. They have been done with exceptional detail. Some of these drawings actually look like photographs. It was very impressive and unique and really enriched my imagination,” she said. ALSO SEE: IN PHOTOS: DHL Stormers vs Phakisa Pumas at Mbombela Stadium Another visitor of the exhibition, Dr Brighton Mashava said it “was astounding and amazing”. “Meeting the artists in person and understanding the motives behind the art work always brings that personal feel to it and that’s what art is about, telling a story,” said Mashava. Van Staden added that the Degrees of Realism exhibit was a “complete success” and that the Guild hopes to have regular exhibitions around the country. To find out more about the guild, visit www.thedrawingguild.co.za. You can also find them on Facebook and on Instagram.